<impartial>

LEGAL COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The effect of this measure is to create the Tuolumne County Traffic Authority, and authorize the Traffic
Authority to impose a one per-cent transactions (referred to as “sales”) and use tax for street/highway
transportation purposes. The tax will be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City, and will be for
a period not to exceed 15 years. The creation of the Authority and imposition of the sales and use tax must
be approved by a majority of the electors voting on this measure, both within the City, and County.

The Authority will be created pursuant to the Tuolumne County Road Facilities Improvement Act,
enacted by the Legislature in 1986. (Public Utilities Code, beginning with Section 150000.) The Authority
shall consist of five members: (2) Two members of the Board of Supervisors; (2) Two members of the
City Council of Sonora; (1) One member representing the public-at-large.

The sales and use tax will be imposed by ordinance pursuant to the Act, and the Transactions and Use
Tax Law (Revenue and Taxation Code, beginning with Section 7251). Revenues from the tax will be
allocated by the Authority for administration of the Act, and for street/highway capital improvements
only, limited to planning, environmental reviews, design, and construction of streets, roads, and
highways within the City of Sonora.

The City Council has prepared a plan for expenditure of revenues derived from the tax (Expenditure
Plan). The Expenditure Plan lists projects in order of priority.

The Authority, by a 4/5 vote of its members, may revise the Expenditure Plan, after conducting noticed
public hearings on the proposed revision.

The Authority is required to rely on existing state, regional, and local data and expertise. It is limited in
its expenditure of funds for staff salaries and benefits.

The ballot proposition also authorizes issuance of bonds payable solely from proceeds of the tax, for
accomplishment of street/highway transportation purposes of the Act. The maximum bonded indebted-
ness which maybe authorized (principal and interest) shall not exceed estimated proceeds of the tax over
a period of not more than 15 years.

<impartialend>