

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION P

This Initiative Ordinance, No. 86-845, is a measure which requires a
two-thirds (2/3) approval margin for passage. This two-thirds requirement is
necessary because die measure is a Special Tax, and all special taxes require
a two-thirds vote for adoption under the California Constitution.

If enacted, this measure will place an assessment against every parcel of
property in the City that pays property taxes. The assessment will be fifty-two
dollars ($52.00) for the calendar year 1987 and a maximum of fifty-two dollars
a year for the years 1988, 1989 and 1990. For those parcels of land that contain
more than one dwelling unit, an additional fifty-two dollars per year will be
assessed for the calendar year 1987 for each additional dwelling unit, and a maximum of fifty-two dollars a year may be assessed against each additional dwelling unit for the calendar years 1988, 1989 and 1990. Thereafter, the tax will
cease to exist unless reenacted by the voters.

The special tax imposed, if this measure is adopted, will be assessed against all
parcels and dwellings at an equal rate regardless of the actual or assessed value
of the particular parcel or dwelling in question. For the purposes of this measure, a condominium will be considered a parcel of land and will be assessed
at the same rate as any other single dwelling unit parcel, a maximum of fifty-two
dollars a year. The first installment of the tax would be due on November 1,
1987, with installments due every succeeding February 1st and November 1st
with a final payment on February 1, 1991. The tax would be part of every property owner’s tax bill received from the County of Los Angeles.

The revenue from the Special Tax will be placed in a special fund and only be
used for providing certain enumerated levels of police and fire service to the
citizens of Hermosa Beach. The objectives of the fund are to provide enough
funds for thirty-nine (39) police officers and nineteen (19) firefighter/paramedic
personnel. In addition, the fund will be used to provide support, training, equipment, services and compensation to the police, fire and paramedic personnel
mentioned above. If a majority of the full City Council finds that the levels of
services listed in the measure can be obtained without the assessment of the
Special Tax, they can vote to suspend the tax, in whole or part, for any year.

The Special Tax will constitute a lien on each parcel as are all other property
taxes. If there is a special fund residue at the end of any year, the unexpended
amount will be returned to the taxpayers or the next year’s assessment will be
lowered in an amount equal to the carryover funds. If any part of this measure
is declared invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining parts shall remain in full
force and effect.

