

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION W

Ordinance No. 88-941

This measure is placed before the people because of the voter approval requirements found in Proposition 62, which was adopted by the voters of the state
in November, 1986. Proposition 62 requires that all tax measures approved
by a city council in a general law city after August 1, 1985 must be ratified
by the voters or they will terminate by November 15, 1988.

The measures subject to this ordinance fall into three categories. The first category deals with Business License Taxes which are charged to businesses located
in the city. These taxes have been in existence for a number of years but were
raised by the city council in 1985 and 1986, prior to the passage of Proposition
62. If confirmed by the voters, these taxes will remain in effect. However, if
this ordinance is not approved, the Business License Tax rates will go back
to the level previously established by the city council prior to August 1,1985.
For most of the Business License Taxes, the rates will return to those established by the city council in 1972.

The second category of taxes is the Transient Occupancy Tax. This is the tax
charged to hotel guests within the city. In 1986, the city council raised the tax
rate from six percent (6%) to eight percent (8%). Approval of this .measure will
keep the rate charged to visitors to the city at eight percent (8%).

The third category of taxes to be conformed is the Park and Recreation Tax.
This is the tax charged to residential developers to pay for acquisition and
improvement of public parks, playgrounds and recreation facilities. If this tax
is not confirmed, the rate will be reduced from thirty-five hundred dollars
($3,500.00) to five hundred dollars ($500.00), which was the rate established
in 1974.

This measure also includes an annual adjustment clause for Business License
Taxes which are not based on a percentage of gross receipts. It also applies to
the Park and Recreation Facilities Tax. Annually, these rates will be adjusted
based on the change in the cost of living for the metropolitan area. This ordinance must be approved by a majority vote.

