


<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF LINCOLN
CONSTRUCTION TAX, MEASURE C



If this measure is approved by a majority of the voters voting at this
election, the City will impose a construction tax upon property within the
City. Collection of the construction tax would begin on July 1, 1989. The
revenue collected from the tax will be deposited into the City’s general fund
and may be spent for any municipal public purpose.

If approved, the proposed construction tax would be charged as follows: a
tax of one percent (1%) of the valuation of any structure for which a building
permit is required will be imposed upon the issuance of any building permit.
The tax wilt be determined by multiplying 0.01 by the valuation of the structure
for which application for a building permit is made. Valuation of the structure
will be determined pursuant to the valuation system used to impose building
permit fees. The tax will be due and payable at the time of application for a
building permit as a condition for issuance of the permit.

The tax imposed by this measure will not apply to the following:

A.	A building permit for construction where the work to be done pursuant to the permit will not increase the square footage of the existing
structure by more than twenty percent (20%).

B.	A building permit for nonhabitable structures, provided such structures are situated on a parcel of land occupied by a habitable structure
in a residential zone.

C.	A building permit for reconstruction or repair of any structure which
was damaged by earthquake, fire, flood or other causes over which the
owner bad no control; provided that compliance with any ordinance as
required by the laws in effect and reconstruction costs do not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the value of the structure.

D.	A building permit for a one-family or two family structure on sub-
divided lots created prior to July 1.1981.

E.	The first $5,000,000.00 in value for each building permit related to
an industrial or commercial structure shall be exempted.

This measure would also authorize the City to exceed its appropriations
limitation for four years beginning with the fiscal year beginning, July 1,1989.


<impartialend>