<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF CHICO
MEASURE K - INCREASE OF TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
FROM 6% TO 9%

On June 21, 1988, the Chico City Council adopted Ordinance #1737, which
increased the City’s transient occupancy tax from 6% of the rent charged by
the operator of a hotel to 9%. This ordinance stated a preference that the
revenues from the increase be appropriated for the promotion of tourism and
economic development, the support of a community center, community art
projects and other similar community programs or projects, but nonetheless
allowed the revenues generated from the tax increase to be used for any
general municipal purpose.

On July 25, 1988, the Chico City Council adopted Resolution #6 88-89
proposing a ballot measure for adoption of an ordinance which, like Ordinance
#1737, would increase the transient occupancy tax from 6% of the rent
charged by the operator of a hotel to 9%. However, unlike Ordinance # 1737,
this proposed ordinance would require that all of the revenues derived from
the 3% tax increase be appropriated exclusively for the promotion of tourism
and economic development, the support of a community center, community
art projects and for other similar community programs or projects. If adopted,
this proposed ordinance would replace Ordinance #1737. This measure
proposes a special tax, since the 3% increase would be levied for a specific
purpose, and therefore requires approval by two-thirds of the qualified electors
voting on the measure.

A yes vote on Measure K would be a vote in favor of adopting an ordinance
which would increase the City’s transient occupancy tax from 6% to 9% and
which would require that the revenues generated from the tax increase be
used for certain specified purposes relating to tourism, economic development
and community programs or projects. A no vote would be a vote against the
measure. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote
in favor of the measure, then the ordinance will be adopted, and the revenues
generated from the 3% tax increase must be used exclusively for the purposes
specified above. If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure vote for the measure, then the previous ordinance adopted by the
Chico City Council on June 21, 1988 will remain in effect, and the revenues
generated from the 3% increase may be used for any general municipal
purpose.

<impartialend>