<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE R

This measure provides for an increase in the transient occupancy
tax in the City of Palm Desert from six percent (6%) to eight percent (8%).
Transient occupancy tax is not a sales, transaction or ad valorem tax on
real property and does not violate the equal protection or due process
clauses of the Constitution. The proposed ordinance is not a tax upon
real or personal property, nor is a tax addressed to the taxpayers of the
City of Palm Desert; rather, it is a tax imposed upon a transient for the
privilege of occupying a room in the City of Palm Desert. In the event
the City of Palm Desert's current transient occupancy tax rate is
increased from the current six percent (6%) to eight percent (8%),
approximately one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in additional revenue
will be generated annually for general purpose revenue.

A transient occupancy tax is an excise tax imposed for the privilege
of occupying lodgings for less than thirty days, paid by the occupant and
collected and delivered to the City by the operator.

The City of Palm Desert may reach its appropriations limit due to
increased revenue from the transient occupancy tax rate increase, as
well as anticipated growth within the City. The California Constitution
restricts the annual appropriations of local government agencies to the
appropriations limit for the prior year adjusted for changes in cost of
living and population. The City of Palm Desert may not expend any tax
revenues it receives above that limit unless the voters within the City of
Palm Desert increase the limit. If the transient occupancy rate increase
is approved, additional revenues will be generated annually.

Pursuant to the California Constitution, the City Council of the City
of Palm Desert has proposed to the voters that an ordinance be adopted
authorizing an increase in the appropriations limit for the City of Palm
Desert for fiscal years ending 1989 through 1992, with the base year for
1988/89 appropriations limit to be increased to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000.00).

The proposed ordinance does not authorize the City Council to
increase the property tax rate within the City of Palm Desert. The
ordinance merely authorizes an increase in the appropriations limit to
enable the City Council to expend monies obtained from existing
sources. Revenues received by the City above the existing appropriations limit will be used to provide city services.

The City Council has called an election for the purpose of
submitting the ordinance to the voters within the City of Palm Desert for
adoption. If a majority of the voters voting on the measure approve it,
the ordinance will be operative for fiscal years ending 1989 through
1992.

A "yes" vote on Measure R is a vote to adopt the ordinance.

A "no" vote on Measure R is a vote against adopting the ordinance.

<impartialend>