<impartial>

Since 1964, the City has levied a general tax known as the Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax. The Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax is imposed upon a
guest in a hotel who is required to pay a tax at the current rate of 11% of the
rent charged by the hotel operator for the room occupied by the guest. The
existing 11% rate was increased from 7% by the City Council on September
16, 1986.

On November 4, 1986, the voters in California approved a statewide ballot
measure, called Proposition 62, which requires any general tax imposed by a
city to be approved by a majority of the city’s voters voting on the tax. This
proposition contains a retroactive provision which states that any tax imposed
by a city on or after August 1,1985 and prior to November 4, 1986 may continue to be imposed only if approved by a majority vote. Any city which fails
to seek or obtain such voter approval must stop imposing the tax on November
15, 1988.

The legality of Proposition 62 is being challenged in the courts. Even if the
proposition is held to be valid, it is not clear whether the courts will find that
the voter approval requirement applies to increases in existing taxes. The City
Council is submitting this measure to the voters to ensure that the 11% tax
rate can continue to be imposed even if the legality of Proposition 62 is upheld
by the courts and the proposition is interpreted to apply to increases in existing
taxes.

A yes vote on the ballot question favors the continued imposition of the Uni-
form Transient Occupancy Tax at the rate of 11%.

A no vote on the ballot question favors a reduction in the existing rate of the
Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax from 11% to 7%.

If this ballot measure is not approved by a majority of the voters voting on
the measure, the rate of the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax will be reduced
from 11% to 7% on November 15, 1988. The Director of Finance Administration estimates that this reduction in the tax rate would result in an annual loss
of over $2,500,000 in tax revenues to the City.

<impartialend>