<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE S

On June 9, 1986, Ordinance No. 629 was adopted by the City
Council of the City of Beaumont as an Urgency Ordinance to establish
utility tax on telephone, electric, gas, and cable T.V. utility users.
Codified as Chapter 13.14 of the Beaumont Municipal Code, Ordinance
629 established a flat tax of three (3%) percent on intrastate telephone
service, electricity use, natural gas use, and cable television use by all
users, commercial and residential.

Pursuant to the Ordinance, regular collection of the tax is made by
the supplier of the service by inclusion in the regular monthly billing
submitted to the user of the service. The City, however, reserves the
powers to collect by direct assessment or legal action the taxes owed by
any user who does not pay the service supplier on a monthly basis as
provided, as well as to collect from any supplier who fails to forward
taxes collected. Late payment penalties and interest are collectible by
the City. A system for overpayment refunds and record keeping is
established by the Ordinance.

Section 13.14.101 provides for an exemption from this tax for any
household with a combined annual gross income of $7,500.00 or
less. The exemption, or refund of taxes paid, is obtained by application
to the Tax Administrator, whom the Ordinance designates as the Finance
Director of the City of Beaumont. A maximum monthly tax of
$2,000.00 per month for a single telephone service user, $3,000.00 per
month for an electricity service user, $3,000.00 per month for a natural
gas service user and $ 1,000.00 per month tax for a cable television user
is provided by the Ordinance.

The Ordinance provides a "sunset provision" under which the tax
expires on July 1,1991. Any renewal of the tax after that time would
require, pursuant to State Law, a vote of the people.

According to information from the City for the fiscal year ending
June 30,1988, the utility user's tax yielded a total of $217,108.36 in
revenue to the City. Costs of collection were very minimal as the work
of collecting from individual users is handled by the utility providers
without any charge to the City. The funds from the utility user's tax
were placed into the City’s general funds where they were used for a
variety of activities including police, fire, street maintenance, and other
basic services.

<impartialend>