<impartial>

The proposed ordinance imposes a telephone user’s tax (the “Tax”) of 10% on
all intrastate telephone charges billed to accounts within Lynwood. The proposed measure would increase the average telephone bill of $30 per month by
$3.00. However, in the case of residences, if the household consists entirely
of persons who are over 60 years of age, or handicapped, and the total income
from all household members for the preceding tax year was less than
$20,000.00, the maximum Tax will be $2.00 per month. The Tax will not be
collected from persons exempt under state or federal law.

The Tax proceeds, which are estimated to be approximately one million dollars
yearly, shall be deposited in the General Fund and shall be available for any
and all general governmental purposes, as the City Council decides. The ordinance does not require the City to spend the tax proceeds for Police and Fire
Services, nor does it require the City Council to spend the tax proceeds in any
other particular way.

The Tax will automatically terminate after any fiscal year in which it is not
needed. The City Council loses its authority to impose the tax after any year
in which it does not budget for Police and Fire Services the total of the
1987-1988 appropriation plus 80% of Tax proceeds.

The Tax will be collected by the telephone company providing interstate telephone services, payable monthly. Any delinquent tax shall be charged interest
at the maximum legal rate, plus a penalty of 5% per month. In addition, in
the case of long term delinquencies, the City may make an additional assessment of 25% of the unpaid tax.

The City shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations for the purpose
of carrying out and enforcing the payment and collection of the Tax. A copy
of such rules and regulations shall be available at the City Manager’s office.

The City Council shall have the power to change certain provisions of the ordinance if four out of the five Council members agree.

If approved by a majority of the voters, this ordinance shall become effective
the next day after the election. The Tax shall apply to intrastate telephone service furnished from the beginning of the first regular billing period 30 days
after the City Council shall adopt the Resolution of Levy.

<impartialend>