<impartial>

MEASURE “R”

ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

BACKGROUND

Existing law requires that any business charging an admission fee must assess and collect
a tax on the price of admission in an amount equal to the greater of the following: (1) six
percent; or (2) the integrated sales tax rate in San Bernardino County attributable to all state
and local sales tax. This rate presently stands at six percent, and can only be changed by
consent of the voters or two-thirds of the state legislature.

The law establishing an admissions tax was adopted by ordinance of the Montclair City
Council on September 15, 1986. Incorporated in the law is a system of procedures for
assessing and collecting the tax and paying it to the City of Montclair. California state law
requires that the ordinance be voted upon by the electorate of the City of Montclair prior
to November 15,1988.

PROPOSAL

This measure requests voter approval of existing law with respect to the admissions tax
rate, collection and assessment of the tax, and its payment to the City of Montclair. The
operational effect of this measure would be identical to that ordinance of the Montclair City
Council, presently in effect, establishing an admissions tax.

If approved by the voters of Montclair, this measure will require each business operator
charging an admission fee to continue assessing and collecting the admissions tax for the
City of Montclair. If this measure fails to receive voter approval, the ordinance establishing
the admissions tax will cease to be law.

FISCAL EFFECT

The existing admissions tax ordinance has been in place for approximately two years. This
measure requests voter approval to continue collection of the admissions tax. Montclair
City Hail records indicate that fifteen businesses are affected by the admissions tax ordinance.

Voter approval of this measure will not result in any increased taxes to residents or business
operators, and will not result in any additional municipal costs. Failure to approve this
measure will result in an annual estimated loss of $300,000 to the City’s general operating
fund.

<impartialend>