<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY MEASURE C


A yes vote on this measure in favor of increasing the existing
transient occupancy tax levied, on the occupancy of tourist accommodations within the City. All tourist accommodations within the City would collect a rate of ten percent from the tourist. Tourist accommodations within the
Redevelopment Area which are newly constructed, or are rehabilitated under the redevelopment plan would collect an additional two percent from the tourist. There would be no increase in tax or obligation to any local resident or business.

A no vote on this measure is a vote against Increasing the tax paid by the
tourist from its present rate of eight percent. 

If enacted, the increase in the existing tax would be paid by persons
occupying accommodations within the City on a transient basis as defined
by existing city ordinance. It is projected, based upon previous years’ collections
that approximately one million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
per year would be raised at the ten percent rate. It is further estimated, based
upon anticipated room rates and occupancies that three million and forty
thousand dollars per year would be raised from newly constructed and rehabiliated properties within the Redevelopment Area.

If a majority of the qualified electors voting on the measure vote yes, the
increase in transient occupancy tax will take effect thirty days after the certification of the election results. If a majority of the qualified electors vote no, the proposed increase will not be levied.

This measure is a general tax, the proceeds of which are under the control
and direction of the locally elected members of the City Council. The use of
the proceeds is not specifically limited, but the uses must be consistent with
law and for a public purpose. The general intent of the measure may be
determined from the ballot arguments submitted.

This impartial analysis is submitted to the voters as required by Section
011 of the Elections Code.


<impartialend>