<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION NN

This initiative imposes a tax containing the following primary features:

1.	Basis is Local Access/Basic Exchange Service; Method of Collection.

The proposed tax will be due monthly for those telephone users having access
to Basic Exchange Service (sometimes referred to as local access). It will be
added to the monthly telephone service charges billed by local access telephone
services providers.

2.	Flat Fee Rate to be Set by Council, Within Limits.

The actual rate of the tax is, within the below set forth limits, to be set periodically by the City Council at a fixed dollar amount per month, as opposed to
a percentage rate. The City Council has announced their resolve to set the rate
in the first year at the limits allowed, if the initiative passes. This provision
gives them die option to reduce it as and if the need may decline in the future.

3.	Maximum limits.

No Residential Service telephone user shall pay greater than the Household
Limit for that City fiscal year. For the 1988-1989 fiscal year, the Maximum
Household limit is set at $7.00 per household, (unless the taxpayer qualifies
for the “Senior” or “Handicapped” Low Income Household limit, discussed
below). The Non-Residential limit for the same period will be $14.00 per
non-residential account. Both limits increase at the rate of 7% in each fiscal
year thereafter. The Household Limit applies regardless of the number of
phones or phone accounts at a particular household.

4.	Senior and Handicapped Low Income Household Limit.

This “Per Month Per Household” Limit is reduced to $2.00, during the
1988-89 City fiscal year, for households whose joint annual income is less than
$20,000, if the members of that household consist exclusively of (A) persons
over 60 years of age, (B) persons who are classified as “handicapped”, or (C)
a combination of either. For fiscal years thereafter, this maximum household
limit increases at the rate of 7% per fiscal year.

5.	Use of Proceeds; Termination for Failure to Appropriate an Amount for

Police Services.	

The ordinance requires the proceeds to be deposited in the General Fund of
the City, and must be made available for appropriation by the City Council
for any general governmental purpose.

However, if the City Council shall fail to appropriate from the General Fund
of the City an amount of resources equal to 99% of the estimate*! proceeds from
the tax levy plus the appropriations applied to police services in the City fiscal
year ending June 30,1988, the tax is terminated in the following year (“Sunset
Provision”, herein).

6.	Majority Vote Required.

It is the City Attorney’s opinion that this is a “General Tax,” and only a majority vote is required for adoption.	'


There is currently no case which tests the Sunset Provision of this proposed
ordinance. Therefore, there is some risk that a Court may subsequently interpret this tax as a “Special Tax”, in which case, it will require a 2/3rds vote for
adoption.

<impartialend>