<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE Q

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Cruz has
submitted Measure "E” to the voters of the county at the November
6, 1990, general election to levy an additional one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) transaction and use tax ("sales tax") pursuant
to state law. If Measure "E" is passed by a majority of voters
countywide voting on the measure, the sales tax would become
operative on April 1,	1991,	and	would	continue for six years

thereafter.

State law authorizes cities and counties to enter into
contracts for sharing sales tax revenues subject to approval of the
voters of participating jurisdictions. The County of Santa Cruz
has requested all cities in the county to enter into a contract
with it for the sharing of sales tax revenues pursuant to
California Government Code Sections 55700-55707, in order to
apportion and provide for the equitable distribution of the
additional sales tax revenues that would be generated if Measure
"E" passes. The City of Scotts Valley has approved and signed the
contract, subject to voter approval.

The contract specifies that during the first year, the
additional sales tax proceeds will be distributed based upon
population. Thereafter, the proceeds will be distributed pursuant
to fixed percentages based upon the estimated amount of additional
local funds needed by each jurisdiction for earthquake recovery.
The City of Scotts Valley would receive 4% of the sales tax
proceeds (an estimated $371,000.00) for the first year. During the
period of the second through sixth years, the City of Scotts Valley
would receive 3.8% of the sales tax proceeds (an estimated total
amount of $1,250,000.00). If actual sales tax revenues exceed
specified amounts, the balance would be distributed amongst
participating jurisdictions on the basis of population.

The contract specifies that the county and participating
cities agree to mutually cooperate in the joint issuance of bonds
by a Public Financing Authority (established pursuant to the Marks-
Roos Local Bond Pooling Act of 1985) , in such amounts as they
determine are needed to fund capital improvements and public
projects, and which can be supported by the levy of the additional
sales tax. The joint issuance of bonds is expected to be less
expensive than separate bond issues by each jurisdiction.

If a majority of the voters of the City of Scotts Valley or
any other city, who vote on the matter do not vote to approve the
contract, that city's share of the additional sales tax revenue
will be distributed, based upon population, to the other
participating jurisdictions whose voters approve the contract.

<impartialend>