<impartial>

ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

PITTSBURG POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES TAX
(Elections Code section 5011)

This measure amends the Pittsburg Municipal Code to add a chapter authorizing the
City Council to levy a special tax on property owners in the City to fund a special drug
enforcement team in the Pittsburg Police Department. This special tax requires approval by
two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure. The tax is adopted under the authority of
California Government Code section 53978 and other applicable law.

The tax would be imposed beginning with fiscal year 1991-1992, and ending with fiscal
year 1994-1995. Maximum amounts for the tax are set forth in the ordinance. The tax could
not be extended, nor could the maximum tax amounts be increased, without two-thirds voter
approval.

The tax is levied on each parcel depending upon the number of units on the parcel. Each
unit would be taxed at a rate not to exceed $29.52 per year. For example, a single family
residence would be taxed not more than $29.52 per year. A duplex would be taxed not more
than $59.04 per year. The owner of an apartment building with 20 units would be taxed not
more than $590.40 per year. The tax would be collected along with property taxes.

Commercial and industrial parcels are taxed based upon the number of separate busines-
ses on the parcel. A parcel which contained one business would be taxed not more than $29.52
per year. A parcel containing a shopping center with 30 separate businesses would be taxed
not more than $885.60 per year.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund, and could only be used to pay for
such items as salary, benefits and equipment for a special drug enforcement team of police
officers. The team would focus primarily on the enforcement of criminal statutes concerning
the possession,use and sale of illegal drugs and controlled substances, and perform such other
police activities as directed by the Chief of Police. The ordinance requires an annual audit of
the special fund to ensure that proceeds of the tax are used as provided in the ordinance.

The ordinance requires the City Council to establish a process to evaluate the operation
of the ordinance which provides for participation by interested members of the community.

This tax would not change any other taxes or fees for City services. Its effect on existing
law is to amend the Municipal Code to authorize the levy of the tax.

<impartialend>