<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE Q

This Measure is designed to permit the voters of the City of La
Quinta to adopt a special tax for the sole and express purpose of
upgrading fire protection and prevention and related paramedic and
community safety services.

At present, fire protection to the City of La Quinta is provided by the
County of Riverside, funded through a "structural fire tax”, collected by
the County, and forming a portion of the total allowable property tax as
limited by the passage of Proposition 13, the Jarvis Amendment, by
California voters in Jane, 1978. Since the passage of Proposition 13,
the County has found it impossible to generate the funds needed to
provide adequate fire protection services in La Quinta, as well as in other
desert communities where growth is occurring.

Because Proposition 13 generally does not permit property tax
increases, the State Legislature has enacted certain statutes giving
citizens the opportunity to adopt a "special tax” for fire protection
services. The requirements for such adoption are rigid:

(a)	Passage requires a 2/3 voter approval;

(b)	The City must adopt an ordinance stating the maximum amount of
the specific parcel charges to be made;

(c)	Charges may be levied on a parcel basis, bn a formula related to
the use of the property, or on the basis of' improvement on the
property, or any combination thereof; and

(d) The annual assessment per parcel cannot be higher than the
maximum amount stated as a "not to exceed" figure in the
Measure.

A copy of the Ordinance adopted by'the La, Quinta City Council
proposing adoption by election is available at City Hall. The Ordinance
provides that the special tax be levied on an equivalent dwelling unit
basis. Residential parcels with one dwelling unit shall pot be charged
more than Ten Dollars ($10.00) per month. (The equivalent dwelling
unit factor for such parcels is 1.0.) However, residential parcels with
more than one dwelling unit and non-residential parcels in the City will
incur higher charges after calculation of the applicable equivalent
dwelling unit charge.

<impartialend>