

CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

This measure asks the voters of Mountain View whether they approve participation in the Ballpark
Joint Powers Finance Authority of Santa Clara County (“Authority”), and whether the Authority
should build and operate a major league baseball stadium (“Ballpark”) financed with a 1% tax
on utility services.

It you vote YES on this measure, then the City will continue to be a member of the Authority,
and the Authority will be authorized to levy a 1% utility tax in Mountain View to build and operate
the Ballpark.

If you vote NO on this measure, then the City no longer will be a member of the Authority and
the Authority will not collect the 1% utility tax in Mountain View.

On August 8, 1990. several cities in Santa Clara County (including Mountain View) and the
County government formed the Authority by signing a joint powers agreement (the Agreement).

The Authority is an agency formed under State law which collectively may exercise the powers
of its members.

The Authority was formed to finance, construct and operate a Ballpark in the City of Santa Clara,
with some parking facilities in the City of San Jose. The Ballpark will be leased for use by the
San Francisco Giants baseball team.

The Authority has proposed to levy a 1% tax on all utility services provided in the member cities
and unincorporated county territory, in order to finance the construction of the Ballpark. The tax
would be used to pay off revenue bonds (“Bonds”) issued to raise the necessary construction
funds, and would continue until the Bonds were paid off (probably in 30 years).

The City of Mountain View is a conditional member of the Authority. The City Council approved
participation in the Authority, but made such participation and the 1% utility tax subject to voter
approval. This measure submits the question to the voters.

The Authority has placed a similar tax measure on the ballot for the remainder of its territory,
and the Cities of Santa Clara and San Jose each have local ballot measures which will determine
those cities' participation. All of these other measures must be passed if the Ballpark is to be
constructed. Whether the Ballpark could proceed without the financial participation of the City
of Mountain View is not certain.

If the necessary ballot measures pass, the Authority would conclude negotiations with the Giants
baseball organization to lease the Ballpark, issue the Bonds (if a lease were agreed upon), and
build the Ballpark.

The Agreement provides that the utility tax will end when the Bonds are paid. Projections
prepared by the Authority indicate that revenues will not equal expenditures for the first 12 years
of operation; thereafter, the Authority projects a surplus. The Agreement provides that a surplus,
if not used to pay the Bonds, must be returned to the participating agencies in proportion to the
amount of utility tax contributed. There is no limitation on the use of surplus funds which are
returned to the member agencies.

