<impartial> 

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE S

MEASURE S relates to approval of Ordinance No. 109.2 of the
City of Scotts Valley establishing a Utility User's Tax. The tax
set forth in the ordinance is a general tax and all funds produced
would be placed in the city's general fund. Approval by a majority
vote of the voters voting on this measure is required in order for
it to be approved.

The ordinance has been adopted by the City Council of the city
of Scotts Valley as an urgency ordinance. However, the ordinance
is not effective for any purpose unless and until it is approved
by the voters.

The ordinance impacts existing law by adding provisions to the
Scotts Valley Municipal Code that establish a Utility User's Tax.
The tax rate is Bet at 3% of the utility user's bill for gas and
electric service. The tax is collected by the utility company
(Service Supplier) from the utility customer (Service User) upon
payment of the monthly utility bill.

Interest at the rate of 10% per annum, exclusive of penalties,
is charged to any Service user who fails to pay the tax due in a
timely fashion, together with a collection charge of $10.00 for
each delinquent account. In addition, a penalty of 1% per month
is charged for such delinquencies.

The Director of Finance is charged with responsibility for
administration of the ordinance. The ordinance contains provisions
relating to appeals to the City Council of determinations made by
the Director of Finance.

A claim for a refund of an overpayment must be filed in
writing with the Director of Finance within 3 years of the date of
payment. In addition, subject to certain qualifications and
exceptions, a refund of tax  may be obtained on an annual
basis by those Service Users who establish that the annual gross
income of the household in which they live is 5% or less of the
median income of Santa Cruz county for their preceding income tax
reporting period. For this purpose, a claimant is the person in
whose name the bills for utility services are rendered. "Income
of the household" means all income of members of the claimant's
household while members of such household, and related to the
claimant as a spouse, as defined in Sections 17056 and 1705" of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The tax is imposed upon every person using electrical energy
or gas in the city, subject to certain prescribed exceptions or
exclusions (such as "gas corporations" or "electrical corporations"
as defined in the California Public Utilities Code).

If Ordinance No. 109.3 is approved by the voters, the tax
would become effective 30 days thereafter.

It is anticipated that the tax would raise approximately
$300/000 or more each year. The amount of revenue generated will
increase as gas and/or electric utility charges increase.

<impartialend>