<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF EXCISE TAX MEASURE

Measure L has as its principal purpose the establishment
of an excise tax to be levied for a maximum of thirty years from
the date of its first imposition. The revenues collected from
imposition of the tax shall be used for the availability and
privilege of use of certain municipal facilities and services, as
well as for other general governmental purposes, described in the
Measure. Measure L identifies the municipal facilities as

(1)	a new community/emergency services center for housing
recreational classes, community events and emergency services
activities (i.e. police facilities) and (2) the refurbishment,
relocation or replacement of City Hall. If adopted. Measure L would levy a tax not to exceed the following rates:

Assessee



1.	As to owners of single-family
residential units, $60.00 per residential
unit per year.

2.	As to owners of multi-family
residential units, $44.00 per residential
unit per year.

3.	As to owners of apartment units, $38.00 per rental unit per year.

4. As to owners of commercial
and other properties, $0.01 per square foot a
parcel (the measure does
not specify whether this
is an annual tax. 

All unimproved parcels and all parcels whose County Use
Codes are not those specified in the Measure are exempt from the
tax.

Collection of the tax shall be accomplished by direct,
periodic billing or other appropriate means. The City's
Administrative Services Director is empowered by the Measure to
adopt rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the tax.
Provisions are included in the Measure covering the procedures
for assessing taxes not paid, as well as for providing for
refunds.

Measure L expressly states that the proceeds of the tax shall be paid into the City's General Fund. The Measure
estimates the cost of the acquisition, construction and equipping
of the defined municipal facilities to be $10,000,000.00. The
Measure contains an expression of the Council's intent to enter into a lease whereby the City would pay rental payments from the
General Fund for a period not exceeding thirty years; the lessor
would assign its rights to receive rental payments to a trustee;
and the City and the lessor would authorize the trustee to sell
certificates of participation in the rental payments payable by
the City, the proceeds of which (from the certificates of
participation) would be used to finance the acquisition,
construction and equipping of the defined municipal facilities.

Measure L states that the City proposes to acquire,
construct and equip the municipal facilities, to levy the excise
tax and to enter into said lease for the objects and purposes set
forth therein if a majority of all qualified voters voting on the
measure vote in favor thereof.

<impartialend>