<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP PROPOSITION E

ORDINANCE NO. 751

Ordinance No. 751 is a proposal to amend die existing business license
schedule by increasing the license fee on all businesses in the City of Bellflower.

The Bellflower Municipal Code presently provides a license fee on businesses
in the City, however. State Law requires that an increase in tax must be
approved by the voters of the City.

The revenues generated from these taxes are for general revenue purposes and
requires approval of the majority of votes cast at an election. The revenues are
not special purpose funds and will be expended for general public uses.

The proposed Ordinance No. 751 does not change, alter or modify die
regulations of any business in the City. The proposed Ordinance amends the
amount of fee to be charged for business licenses. The proposed Ordinance will
provide that the business tax new businesses shall be due and payable on
the. anniversary date of issuance of license each year. Businesses currently
paying their annual business license tax on July 1 of each year will continue
to do so.

Businesses, unless specifically provided otherwise in the Ordinance, will have
a basic fee of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) annually plus a variable per
employee charge.

Annually, on July 1, the rate or fee schedule will be adjusted by applying the
percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the Los Angeles/
Long Beach/Anaheim Schedule as further set out in the Ordinance, not to
exceed ten percent (10%) in any one year.

The Ordinance further provides for license fees for certain businesses,
professions, trades and occupations which are specifically set forth by schedule
and reference should be made to the Ordinance text as to any particular
business. The fee and duration as to those specific businesses varies annually,
monthly or daily and, as such, are so set forth in the Ordinance.

The implementation of this Ordinance will not result in additional costs to the
City of Bellflower.

Reference to the text of Ordinance No. 751 is recommended concerning any
particular business, profession, trade or occupation to determine the fee for
each.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to increase the business license tax.

A “No” vote is a vote to not increase the business license tax.

<impartialend>