<impartial>

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY


This measure imposes a special tax on real property in the City of Los
Angeles to hire 1,000 new police officers plus supporting civilian
personnel, equipment and related expenses.

Currently, the Los Angeles Police Department is authorized to employ
7,900 police officers. This tax, if approved, would allow 8,900 police officers
to be employed. The' 1,000 new officers would be assigned to uniformed,
detective, narcotics and anti-gang activities in order to implement the
community-based policing recommendations in the report of the
Christopher Commission. Approximately 200 officers would be hired each
year over a five year period and these officers could only be employed as
police officers, sergeants, or detectives.

The measure requires the City Council to adopt a tax rate for each fiscal
year beginning in 1993 sufficient to pay the costs of the additional police
protection authorized by this measure. This measure specifies a maximum
tax rate of $4.89 per 100 square feet of improvement and allows the rate
to be increased by ordinance as the Consumer Price Index for the Los
Angeles area increases. This tax could not be imposed in any year that
the City does not fund and employ at least 7,900 regular police officer
positions.

For each parcel of improved property, the annual tax would be computed
by multiplying the tax rate by the gross square footage of the
improvements located on the parcel. For each unimproved parcel, the
annual tax would be computed by multiplying the tax rate by 500 square
feet of improvements, regardless of the size of the unimproved parcel.
Parcels and improvements owned by organizations which are exempt from
federal income tax, such as nonprofit organizations, would be exempt from
the proposed special tax. This measure also establishes a method to
correct errors in the computation of the tax and establishes a refund
procedure.


The special taxes collected would be placed in the Special Police Tax Fund
and would be used exclusively to pay for increased police services.

This special tax must be approved by a two-thirds majority vote of all those
voting on the measure.

<impartialend>