<impartial>

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY


This measure imposes a special tax on property in the City of Los Angeles
to pay for improvements in the City’s 9-1-1 police and fire emergency
communications system.

The current police radio and dispatch system, known as the Emergency
Command Control Communications System (ECCCS), was designed and
installed between 1978 and 1983. ECCCS is currently housed in one facility
and is the City’s primary system used to answer all police, fire and
paramedic 9-1-1 emergency calls.

The proposed system improvements to be financed by this tax include a
new, enhanced voice and digital radio system; a new, computer-aided
police dispatch system and dispatch center located in the metropolitan
area; hand-held radios and mobile data terminals; a back-up police/fire
9-1-1 answering facility; and a new police communications and dispatch
center located in the San Fernando Valley.

Revenues from the proposed special tax would be deposited into a Special
Police Communications/9-1 -1 System Tax Fund and would be used to pay
such costs as: payments for lease of the system or any component of the
system, various administrative expenses for the issuance of revenue bonds
to finance the system, insurance premiums for equipment, expenses of
collecting and administering the tax, and any reimbursements for funds
that may be advanced from the City’s General Fund for the program.

Lease payments would serve as collateral for, and the source of repayment
of, up to $235,000,000 in lease revenue bonds, issued by a nonprofit
corporation, joint powers authority or other financing entity; or as collateral
for, and the source of repayment of, refunding bonds issued to refund
lease revenue bonds. Net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds would be
used to acquire, construct or install components of the system. Any
amount remaining after all lease revenue bonds issued to finance the
system have been repaid in full would be used only for maintaining or
improving the police communications and dispatch equipment and
systems.

The proposed tax would be imposed on each parcel, improvement to
property, any of property. For each parcel of improved property, the
annual tax would be computed by multiplying the tax rate by the gross
square footage of the improvements on the parcel. For each
unimproved parcel, the annual tax would be computed Oy multiplying the
tax rate by 500 square feet of improvements, regardless of the size of
unimproved parcel. The City Council is required to adopt a tax rate for each
fiscal year which could not exceed $1.75 per one hundred gross square
feet of improvement area or fraction thereof. The proposed special tax
would be imposed for a maximum of 20 years, beginning in fiscal year
1993. Parcels and improvements owned by organizations which are
exempt from federal income tax, such as nonprofit organizations, would
be exempt from the proposed special tax. This measure also establishes
a method to correct errors in the computation of the tax and establishes
a refund procedure.

This special tax must be approved by a two-thirds majority vote of all those
voting on the measure in order to become operative.

<impartialend>