
MEASURE “R”

ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

AN INITIATIVE ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILEHOME)
SPACE RENTAL ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES, PROVIDING FOR MANUFACTURED HOME
RENT CONTROL, AND CREATING A MANUFACTURED HOME FAIR PRACTICES
COMMISSION

The City of Yucaipa presently regulates manufactured home (mobilehome) rents through
Ordinance 63 (amended) (“Ordinance 63"), and as that Ordinance has been amended by
the City Council since its adoption in January 1990. Ordinance 63 establishes rent control
procedures for mobilehome park spaces, and provides for the creation and appointment of
a Mobilehome Rent Review Commission to review rent adjustment applications and appeals.
Ordinance 63 requires registration of mobilehome parks and permits the City to adopt fees
covering costs of administration and implementation of the Ordinance; imposes a rent
rollback to December 31, 1988; restricts annual adjustments to 66.67% of the increase in
the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”); authorizes limited capital improvement rent adjustments;
and establishes an application procedure allowing additional adjustments in rent where a
park owner is not receiving a just and reasonable return on investment related to net
operating income (“NOI”).

Since 1990, the City Council has amended and clarified Ordinance 63 to prohibit park owners
from requiring long-term leases as a condition of tenancy, and to control rent increases when
vacancies occur. The City Council has initiated enforcement actions and defended litigation
challenging the legality of its rent control ordinances and Mobilehome Rent Review
Commission decisions.

The proposed Initiative Ordinance (the “Initiative") also creates rent control procedures for
mobilehome park spaces; provides for the establishment of a Manufactured Home Fair
Practices Commission comprised of the City Council; requires registration of mobilehome
parks; and establishes a registration fee to defray the costs of ordinance administration. The
Initiative establishes a fee for NOI adjustment applications to cover costs of review and
administration, and an assessment of $3.00 per month per park space to defray costs of
enforcement of the ordinance. The Initiative would impose a rent rollback to December 31,
1986, or the first date space rent was charged after that date; and allows permissive annual
rent adjustments to the lesser of 3% or 50% of the increase in CPI. NOI adjustment
applications may be made where the permissive increase does not provide a just and
reasonable return on investment. The NOI adjustment process and maximum increase
allowed under an NOI application is ambiguous and subject to interpretation. The Initiative
prohibits increases in rent upon vacancy.

It is impossible to compare the specific effect on rents which would be created under
Ordinance 63 and under the Initiative.

The effects must be determined on a case-by-case basis.

If enacted, the Initiative may only be amended by a vote of the electors. This severely restricts
the City’s ability to maintain flexibility as the law changes. An adverse court determination
as to the legality or constitutionality of any provision of the Initiative would leave the City
Council unable to make adjustments to avoid further attacks and exposure. Amendment by
ballot measure would be costly and cumbersome.

The proposed Initiative Ordinance includes provisions which may be interpreted as a special
tax. In order to pass, this Initiative Ordinance must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the

qualified electors of the City.

Section 5O11 of the Elections Code requires City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis of measures appearing on the

ballot.

