<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE A 

This measure asks the voters to decide whether an ordinance to be finally adopted by the Vallejo City Council on August 11, 1992, to impose a special tax on all parcels of real property
located within the City limits for the exclusive purpose of maintaining and expanding police protection services shall be enacted and made operative commencing with the next fiscal year (i.e.
July 1,1993).

The ordinance establishes a tax rate of $50 per year for each residential parcel unit, and a tax
rate of from $50 to $175 per year for each commercial and industrial business unit based upon
their gross receipts. The residential tax will be collected on the property tax bills, and the commercial/industrial tax will be collected with the business license fees. Vacant land is charged 50%
of the residential rate, and federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as home occupations, are exempt.

The objective of the ordinance is to raise up to $2.5 million per year to maintain and expand
police protection services in the City of Vallejo as determined by the City’s assessment of Its law
enforcement priorities. The City Council must commit 46% of the City's general fund to police
services in order to levy this tax, and if that isn’t done, then the tax cannot be levied for that
particular year. The $2.5 million figure as well as the tax rate itself will be adjusted each year for
inflation by applying the appropriate CPI indices.

The City Council is given the power to suspend all or a portion of the tax If it determines that
police protection services are being adequately met from other revenues, and the Council can
make certain amendments to the ordinance, but cannot raise the tax without voter approval.

The City Council each’ year is required to appoint a citizen's task force to review the ordinance
and the use of the tax revenues, and to make recommendations on whether the tax should be
continued and the best use of the funds in the next fiscal year. The ordinance also adjusts the
City's debt limit by the amount of the revenue derived from the tax In order to satisfy the mandate of the State Constitution.

State law (Calif. Govt. Code, §§53970-53979, inclusive) allows a city, by ordinance, to impose a
special tax for police and/or fire protection services provided the tax is approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting on the measure at a regular or special municipal election.

<impartialend>