<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE S


The City Council of the City of Millbrae has placed this advisory
measure on the ballot to determine whether the voters support the
establishment of a citywide assessment district. This district,
which would be in effect for no more than five years, would
generate additional revenues in an effort to maintain existing
service levels in Millbrae. When the City Council placed this
advisory measure on the ballot, it also enacted a companion
resolution stipulating the intent of and the general parameters
for the adoption of this citywide assessment district
("Resolution of Intent").

In accordance with the Resolution of Intent and applicable legal
requirements, the annual assessment would affect all residential,
commercial and industrial property owners in a fair and equitable
manner. The assessment would be paid with the annual property
tax bill of each property owner. As indicated in the advisory
measure and as further clarified in the Resolution of Intent,
property owners of single family residential property would be
assessed no more than $72 per year upon establishment of the
assessment district. It is estimated that this assessment
proposal would generate approximately $630,000 per year.

The proposed assessment would be established under the
Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 ("Act"). This Act permits a
city to raise funds through assessments for installation, maintenance and servicing of public parks, recreational and other
landscaping facilities, as well as street lighting systems. In
Millbrae, these activities currently are financed with General
Fund revenues. To the extent that the citywide assessment
district generates a new revenue source for public landscaping
and lighting facilities, the General Fund revenues presently used
for these purposes would be available for reallocation to support
the City's fire, police, parks, recreation and other municipal
services.

The Act also specifies implementation procedures for the
assessment district. It requires that the City Council conduct a
noticed public hearing each year to determine the amount of the
assessments based on projected costs and benefits of the services
to be financed under the assessment district in the upcoming
fiscal year. Future annual adjustments in the assessments shall
not exceed the increase in the cost of living as determined by
the Consumer Price index, factored from the maximum base of $72
per year for owners of single family residences.

The city Council has included in this advisory measure a five
year sunset clause. The Resolution of Intent indicates that this
restriction is designed to assure that the Council would
reevaluate the need for the assessment district within that
period of time.

<impartialend>