<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

This Ordinance, known as the “Library Services Retention Act of 1992," would impose a City-wide special tax to fund
City library services. If approved, the tax would be in effect for fifteen years and it could only be extended upon voter
approval. It is estimated that this special tax would provide revenues necessary to finance the operation of the City’s
library services at a level that would permit: 1) at least one neighborhood library per Council District to remain open
6 days per week, including evenings; 2) sufficient funds to retain evening operation at the Main branch library and add
Sunday hours; 3) provision of children’s service programs in every neighborhood library; 4) enhancement and expansion
of library collections; and 5) expansion of programs in support of literacy and lifelong learning. The Ordinance allows the
City Council to adjust the annual tax rates by a maximum of 5% after the third year of the tax’s implementation consistent
with any annual increases in the cost of living that may occur in the San Francisco Bay Area. The Ordinance provides a
complete exemption from the tax for low-income homeowners, non-profit residential hotels, schools, hospitals, church-
es, and land that is used for agricultural purposes. To qualify for the low-income exemption, taxpayers would be required
to provide documentation of their income.

The tax is based upon a per parcel rate of $30 for single family residential units, $20 per unit for multi-unit residential
parcels and $15 per “single family equivalent” units for non-residential parcels, such as industrial and commercial
property. That is, for the different categories of non-residential property, the tax liability is calculated by using a formula
that is based on a standard measurement that has been determined to be the equivalent of a single family residential unit.
This formula is expressed in terms of parcel frontage and area. The tax for such properties would be the product of $15
times the number of “single family equivalents” (“SFE”) corresponding to the particular non-residential property. For
example: the formula for an industrial parcel with a frontage of 80 feet and an area of 6400 sq. ft. is the equivalent of one
single family unit (1 SFE); another industrial parcel with a frontage of 160 feet (computed as 2 single family equivalents, as
160 4- 80 = 2) and an area of 19,200 sq. ft. (computed as 3 single family equivalents, as 19,200 4- 6400 = 3) would pay tax of
$75. That is, 2SFE’s+3SFE’s = 5SFE’s and such 5 SFE's x the non-residential tax rate of $15 = $75.

It is estimated that the tax would generate an average of $3,950,000 in revenues, after allowable exemptions, during
each of the first three fiscal years.

<impartialend>