<impartial>

CITY OF PORT HUENEME
SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES
CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE “Z” 

On February 16,1994, the City Council of the City of Port Hueneme
adopted Ordinance No. 595 calling for the levy of a special property tax
within the City for the sole purpose of providing police protection services.
This special tax is not an ad valorem tax based upon the value of the
property. This special tax is based, to the extent practical, upon the amount
of police protection services which have been determined will be required by
each parcel. The revenue raised by this tax will be used for the purpose of
providing police protection services.

California Government Code Section 53978 is the authority for a city which
provides police protection services to determine and propose for adoption a
special tax for police protection services provided by the City other than an
ad valorem property tax. Such a proposition shall be submitted to the voters
of the affected area (the City of Port Hueneme) and shall take effect upon
approval of two-thirds of the voters voting upon such proposition.

The special tax levied pursuant to the City of Port Hueneme Ordinance shall
be collected by the County of Ventura on behalf of the City of Port Hueneme
in the same manner and subject to the same penalties for delinquency as
other taxes which are fixed and collected by the County of Ventura.

Under the Ordinance, the City Council is authorized to levy a special tax in
the City each year for police protection services on each parcel of land as
shown on the Ventura County Assessor’s Parcel Maps and carried on the
Ventura County secured property tax roll; provided, that such tax shall not
be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency or another local
agency. The special tax shall be imposed in accordance with the following
schedule:

Single-family residential parcels
Multiple-family residential parcels
Commercial and industrial parcels
Vacant parcels

$56 per dwelling per year
$47 per dwelling per year
$0.0250 per sq. ft. of land area per year
$0.0083 per sq. ft. of land area per year

Such special tax shall be utilized for police protection services which include
police protection equipment or apparatus, for paying the salaries and
benefits of police protection personnel, and for such other necessary
protection and prevention expenses in the City of Port Hueneme to which
police protection services are made available.

A "yes” vote on this measure favors levying a special tax for police
protection services.

A “no” vote on this measure opposes levying a special tax for police
protection services.

<impartialend>