<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

This Measure would impose a general excise tax upon the
owners and occupants of real property located within the City
of East Palo Alto. The revenue from the tax would be used for
payment of general municipal expenses. The tax would be
levied for a period of three fiscal years only, beginning in
1994-95, after which it will automatically expire. The rates of
the excise tax are as follows:

$175 for each single-family property, except properties
owned by low income persons who are elderly or handicapped. If a single-family dwelling is located upon more
than one assessor’s parcel, the property will be taxed as a
single parcel.

$175 for each agricultural parcel.

$100 for each vacant parcel.

$60 per dwelling unit for each multi-family parcel. If
there are less than three rental units, the minimum tax
for all dwelling units on the site will be $180. The tax will
be collected from the property owner, but such owner
may obtain reimbursement by charging the tax to the
tenants at such time as the owner is entitled to charge a
rent increase. The excise tax will constitute an allowable
expense under the City's rent control ordinance. The
owner will pay the tax on any vacant rental units.

$1,000 for each commercial, industrial or institutional
parcel. A single business establishment located on more
than one assessor’s parcel will be taxed as a single parcel.
A parcel containing both commercial and residential uses
will be taxed as a commercial parcel.

The excise tax will be billed along with the real estate taxes
collected by the County of San Mateo and will be paid at the
same time and in the same manner as such real estate taxes.
The obligation to pay the excise tax will be secured by a lien on
the owner’s property, which may be foreclosed upon failure to
pay the tax.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of the excise tax; a “No” vote is
a vote against the tax. The proposed excise tax must be
approved by a majority of the voters voting upon this Measure.

<impartialend>