<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE JJ

In 1988, the City of Riverside created Street Lighting District
No, 1 which includes the entirety of the City. Annually, property
owners in Riverside are assessed and revenues approximating
$2,850,000 are raised to pay for street lighting costs. Having been
relieved of these costs, the City’s General Fund expends a similar
amount to pay for more police and fire services. If the measure
described below is approved by the voters of the City of Riverside,
the District will cease to exist beginning with fiscal year 1995-96,
and no further Street Lighting District assessments will be charged.

This measure will authorize the City Council of the City of
Riverside, to annually levy special taxes on or with respect to parcels
of property to pay the salaries, benefits and related costs of 30
additional police officers and 11 additional fire department officers;
permit police and fire department capital expenditures including
police vehicles, computers, radios, an automated report writing
system, a quick response fire engine, mobile data terminals and fire
emergency traffic control systems; pay the costs and expenses of
the police and fire departments previously funded by the Street
Lighting District; and pay annual administration and collection
costs.

The special taxes will be in the amounts of $72 per year for
each residence, condominium and apartment; $30 per year for each
space in a mobile home park; $60 per year for each unimproved
parcel of property; and in amounts ranging from $22 to $1,200 per
year for each commercial or industrial property depending on the
use and square footage of buildings thereon, all as provided in
Ordinance No. 6162 introduced and adopted by the City Council on
August 9,1994.

The special taxes for residences, condominiums, apartments
and spaces in mobile home parks will be collected in 12 equal
installments with monthly utility bills. The special taxes for commercial and industrial properties and unimproved properties will be
collected on property tax bills. The special taxes will first be levied
in the 1995-1996 fiscal year.

The revenues from the special taxes will only be used to pay
for the above-specified police and fire department officers and
related costs. The funds will be segregated from other funds of the
City and will not be part of its General Fund.

<impartialend>



