IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T


PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

Effect of Measure on Existing Law

The additional police services program would itself have no effect on existing law.
Financing certain costs of the program through a city-wide assessment district established under Title 83 of the City Code, as is proposed, would impose a new lien upon all non-exempt
developed property within the City.

Operation of Measure 

The City Council has independent authority to establish assessment districts. By placing
this measure on the ballot, the Council has determined to ask the voters whether the Council
should establish an assessment district to finance the proposed services. Therefore, this
measure is advisory.

The proposed program provides for police services which are “additional" in that they are
in addition to those funded by the City’s general fund, and would not be provided but for the
funding generated by the proposed assessment. These additional services are for the
purpose of crime reduction and the protection and preservation of property and property
values within the district.

Those additional services which have been determined to provide direct benefit to property
within the district would be financed through the establishment of an assessment district
under Title 83 of the City Code. The annual cost of the additional services to be financed in
this manner is projected to be $6,000,000. This cost will be spread over non-exempt
developed properties in the manner set forth in the full text of the measure. For example, each
developed single family residential parcel would be assessed $29.00 per year. The
methodology used to arrive at the cost spread factors is based upon land use categories,
and upon the relative historic cost of damage and property loss to properties caused by
crime. The proposed assessment district would expire after five years.

Institution of proceedings under Title 83 of the City Code requires preparation of a detailed
report specifying the proposed program; the costs; the boundaries of the district; the method
of spreading the costs; the proposed assessments; and the rationale for the conclusion of
special and direct benefit to property within the district. Subsequently, public hearings must
be held to receive public input, and to hear and rule upon protests. The public hearings will
relate to the issues specified in the report, and other matters relevant to assessment
proceedings. While Title 83 allows these hearings to be held prior to an election, no decision
will be made by the City Council on whether to establish the district until after this election is
held.	

The effect of this measure, if enacted, would be to advise the City Council to establish the
proposed assessment district. If the district is established, assessments would be levied
upon all non-exempt developed property within the proposed district. These assessments
would be collected along with normal property taxes, by the County Tax Collector.