<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION L

Currently, the South Pasadena Public Library is funded annually from the City’s
General Fund. This funding is part of the annual City Budget.

This measure would fix a special tax upon each “dwelling unit” and
non-residential parcel in the City for the specific purpose of funding a basic level
of library services. Special taxes must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) vote or such
taxes may not be enacted.

The annual rate by category for the new tax is as follows:

1.	Single family residences and condominiums pay $24.00 if they are less than

2.000	square feet; $36.00 if between 2,001 and 4,000 square feet; $48.00 if over

4.000	square feet. “Square feet” refers to square feet of Building Area as
determined by the Los Angeles County Assessor.

2.	Multi-family residential units, such as apartment buildings, pay $12.00 per
Dwelling Unit on the parcel.

3.	Non-residential parcels pay $24.00 per parcel if one-quarter (1/4) acre or less;
$48.00 per parcel if over one-quarter (1/4) acre but one-half (1/2) acre or less;
$72.00 per parcel if over one-half (1/2) acre but three-quarters (3/4) acre or
less; $96.00 per parcel if more than three-quarters (3/4) acre.

4.	The following types of property are exempt from, the tax:

a.	Parcels owned by charitable or community service organizations or
churches which qualify for an exemption from ad valorem taxation under
California law.

b.	Vacant parcels.

c.	Parcels owned by the federal, state or local government, or any state or local
agency.

d.	Any owner who has income, adjusted for family size, at or below eighty
percent (80%) of the area median income as determined under the Section
8 Income Limits for Los Angeles County. (These limits are published by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.)

If in any year the City Council does not budget and appropriate sufficient funds
for the basic level of library services, this tax would be fixed at a reduced level
in relation with any reduction in the budget.

Any surplus amounts raised by this tax in any one year may only be used for the
purposes described in the proposed ordinance, and must be carried over to the
following fiscal year. The availability of a surplus must be considered by the City
in levying the tax for the next year.

The term of this tax, if approved by the voters, is for five (5)years and any
extension must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters at another municipal
election.

The special tax would be collected by the Los Angeles County Assessor in the
same manner as property taxes.

<impartialend>