

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

AN INITIATIVE MEASURE TO DISSOLVE THE LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING
ASSESSMENT DISTRICT CREATED BY OAKLAND CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
NUMBER 66354 C.M.S. ON JUNE 22, 1989, AS AMENDED

If adopted, this initiative measure attempts to dissolve the City of Oakland’s
Landscaping Lighting Assessment District (hereinafter referred to as “LLAD”). This
dissolution would eliminate a $15 million funding source for the maintenance and
improvement of parks and street lighting in the City of Oakland.

The City of Oakland’s LLAD was established pursuant to the California Streets &
Highways Code sections 22500 and following (the Landscaping and Lighting
Assessment District Act). In order to validly form such an assessment district, Streets
and Highways Code section 22573 requires an engineer’s report analyzing the costs
of assessment charges and the method by which they are to be fairly apportioned
among parcel owners receiving special benefits as a result of the LLAD. Such a report
was prepared prior to the Oakland City Council’s adoption of Oakland City Council
Resolution number 66354 C.M.S. on June 22, 1989, and every year thereafter an
engineer’s report has been prepared to confirm that the charges and method of
apportionment continue to be valid. This initiative measure challenges the accuracy of
the engineer’s reports that were prepared for the formation, continuation, and
amendment of Oakland's LLAD.

This measure attempts to dissolve the LLAD through the initiative process. The use
of the initiative process to dissolve the LLAD is legally questionable and could be
subject to challenge. The legislature has set forth specific statutory requirements for
the creation or dissolution of a LLAD as set forth in the California Streets & Highways
Code. These provisions specifically provide that the property owners who are benefitted
by the district, not the general electorate, are the only persons with the right to protest
the assessment and the formation and/or dissolution of the district. As such, the courts
have held that assessment proceedings are not subject to initiative/referendum
processes (Chase v. Kalber (1915) 28 Cal.App. 561, 565). Also, California courts have
held that an initiative cannot impair an essential government function. This initiative,
by eliminating necessary funding, would impair park and street lighting maintenance,
operation and improvement, an essential governmental service (Alexander v. Mitchell
(1953) 119 2d 816). This initiative measure, therefore, could be subject to a
legal challenge if it is adopted by the voters.

