IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE T

Article of the State Constitution provides that no low-rent
housing project shall be developed, constructed, or acquired within
the City by any State public body until a majority of the qualified
electors of the City, voting upon such issue, approve such project.
Article of the State Constitution was approved by the voters
for the purpose of providing a mechanism for expressing community
concern regarding federally subsidized conventional public housing
projects occupied entirely by persons of low-income.

The City Council of the City of Watsonville proposes, subject to voter
approval, to develop, construct, or acquire 150 dwelling units for low
and moderate income families and for persons who are either blind,
elderly, or disabled. The units would not be built in one area or any one
location, but rather in various areas of the City where the need is greatest.
The authorized number of units may either be developed and constructed
or existing units acquired by either public or private developers.

The proposed 150 units of low-rent housing does not apply to any
development meeting any one of the following criteria:

(a)	(1) Is privately owned and received no ad valorem property tax
exemption not fully reimbursed to all taxing entities; and (2) in which
no more than 49 percent of the units are made available to persons
of low income.

(b)	Is privately owned and is not exempt from ad valorem taxation
by reason of any public ownership, and is not financed with direct
long-term financing from a public body.

(c)	Is intended for owner-occupancy, which may include cooperative
or condominium ownership, rather than for rental-occupancy.

(d)	Consists of newly constructed, privately owned, one-to-four family
dwellings not located on adjoining sites.

(e)	Consists of existing dwelling units leased by a state public body
from the private owner of such dwelling units.

(t) Consists of the rehabilitation, reconstruction, improvement or addition to, or replacement of, dwelling units of a previously existing
low-rent housing project.

