

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

ADVISORY MEASURE FOR LIBRARY BOOKS AND IMPROVEMENTS

This measure asks for a non-binding, advisory vote as to whether the City of San Jose
should establish an assessment district to augment the funding of materials,
improvements and other programs for the San Jose Public Library. Under the City
Charter, the City Council has the ability to create such an assessment district.

To create such a district, the City Council will first have to enact an ordinance
authorizing the establishment of a library benefit assessment district. After the
enactment of such an ordinance, an engineer’s report would have to be prepared
determining the particular benefit received by real property from libraries and new
materials and improvements which would be acquired from assessments on real
property. The City Council would be required to hold at least two public hearings on
the creation of such a district and the proposed engineer’s report determining the
assessments among various real property within the City. After a second public hearing,
the Council would be able to adopt the engineer’s report and impose assessments on
real property.

The advisory vote measure states that assessments would not exceed $25 annually for
single-family residences. Other properties would be assessed a proportional amount,
as determined in the final engineer’s report, spreading the benefit. While this measure
would not approve or enact specific amounts, it would constitute a statement by voters
of a recommended maximum assessment. It is estimated that assessments of $25 per
single-family residence, and a proportional amount for other properties would raise an
approximately $5 million annually. This measure envisions that the assessments would
terminate after ten years and would not be imposed after that time without a
reestablishment of the library benefit assessment district. It is expected that all
assessments will be included in property tax bills and collected with property taxes.

On August 9,1994, the City Council adopted a formal Resolution which states that any
library benefit assessments would supplement, and not replace, current funding of
libraries.


