<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

This proposed Ordinance, the “Library Services Retention Act of 1994,” would
impose a City-wide special tax to fund City library services. If adopted, the tax would
be in effect for fifteen years and it could only be extended upon voter approval. It is
estimated that this tax would provide revenues necessary to finance the operation of
the City’s libraries at a level to permit: (1) neighborhood libraries to remain open 5 days
per week; (2) retaining library services at the Main Library 7 days per week; (3)
enhancement and expansion of library collections; (4) educational and cultural
programs for youth in every library; (5) expansion of programs for literacy, lifelong
learning and information technology; and (6) operation of an African-American museum
and library program. The Ordinance allows the City Council to adjust the annual tax
rates by a maximum of 5% after the third year of the tax’s implementation, consistent
with annual increases in the cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area. The Ordinance
provides an exemption from the tax for low-income homeowners and nonprofit
residential hotels. To qualify for the low-income exemption, taxpayers must provide
documentation of their income.

The tax is based upon a per parcel rate of $29.28 for single family residential units,
$20 per unit for multi-unit residential parcels and $15 per “single family equivalent” units
for nonresidentiai parcels, such as industrial and commercial property. The multi-unit
residential rate is reduced by 50% to $10 per unit if the majority of the residential units
on such parcel have been vacant at least 6 months. For the different categories of
nonresidentiai property, tax liability is based on a standard measurement determined
to be the equivalent of a single family residential unit. This formula is expressed irt terms
of parcel frontage and area. The tax for such properties is the product of $15 times
the number of “single family equivalents” (“SFE”) for the particular nonresidentiai
property. Example: an industrial parcel with a frontage of 80 feet and an area of 6400
square feet is the equivalent of one single family unit (1 SFE); another industrial parcel
with a frontage of 160 feet (computed as 2 SFEs, as 160 80 = 2) and an area of 19,200
square feet (computed as 3 SFEs, as 19,200 -r 6400 = 3) would pay tax of $75. Thus,
2 SFEs + 3 SFEs = 5 SFEs and such 5 SFEs x the nonresidentiai tax rate of $15 = $75.

The tax is estimated to generate approximately $4,079,344 in revenues, before
allowable exemptions and county collection fees, during each of the first three fiscal
years.

Ordinances adopted by the voters for special taxes similar to this proposed
ordinance have been upheld by the California Supreme Court.

<impartialend>