<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

This ballot measure asks the voters of Petaluma whether the Petaluma City
Council may, for ten years, levy an annual special assessment against all parcels
of real property (except for government owned parcels which by law are exempt
from assessment) within the City of Petaluma to pay for the partial costs of police
and fire services for the protection of real property with any revenues generated
being added to the current general fund allocation of $9.5 million for police and
fire services.

The boundaries of the area proposed to be subject to the levy of such
assessments are the boundaries of the City of Petaluma. All future annexations
to the City, if any, shall be included in this assessment district and any new parcels created as a result of the segregation or consolidation of existing parcels would
be included within the district.

Chapter 4.3, Title IV of the Petaluma Municipal Code sets forth a mechanism
for the City Council to levy assessments upon parcels of land within the City based
upon the benefit they receive from police and fire services related to the protection
of real property. This would include, but is not limited to, services related to the
prevention and detection of burglary, arson, vandalism, and criminal trespass;
patrolling and surveillance of property; the investigation of crimes against real
property; the inspection of property for fire hazards; and the extinguishment of
fires. The assessment is based on availability of services related to real property
and is not dependent on the performance of actual services for any particular
parcel.

The police and fire services to be funded by revenues from the special
assessment will include salaries and benefits, services and supplies, equipment
for police and fire personnel and services, and the cost of district formation and
administration. Revenue from the district will supplement other sources of revenue
available to the City to maintain current services and fund additional police officers,
services and supplies, police and fire vehicles, and related equipment.

The amount of the assessments will vary on the type and use of the land. Single
family detached residences would pay S62 per year, attached houses and
apartments would pay S46 per year per unit, mobile homes would pay $31 per
unit per year, commercial/industrial would pay between $106 and $232.50 per
acre per year, and all other parcels (i.e., vacant, agricultural, private open space)
would pay $6 per year. A detailed description of the methodology used in arriving
at these amounts is set forth in the "Engineer’s Report Special Police and Fire
Services" which is available for review at Petaluma City Hall. The estimated yearly
revenue from the assessments would be approximately $1.2 million.

The City Council is required to review the assessments yearly and either
reduce, eliminate, or maintain the amounts of the assessment, but may not
increase the assessment amounts.

<impartialend>