

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TOWN ATTORNEY
MEASURE I

The Town of Tiburon has developed plans to construct a new Tiburon Police and Administrative Facility at Ned's Way to replace the existing Town Hall and police buildings. The
project, which is budgeted at $3,295,000, includes the demolition of the existing buildings
at Ned’s Way, construction of a new Police and Administrative Facility not to exceed 14,000
square feet and associated improvements to parking, circulation, drainage and other necessary infrastructure.

Passage of this ballot measure would authorize the Town of Tiburon to issue $1,925,000 in limited obligation bonds to pay for the project, with the balance of $1,400,000 being
paid from Town reserves. This bonded indebtedness would be paid for by the imposition
of a special municipal tax on all developable parcels in Tiburon for a period not to exceed
25 years. Parcels which are non-buildable would be exempt from the tax. In addition,
property owners who qualify for the PG&E Lifeline low income exemption would be exempt
from the tax. Property owners would be able to prepay the entire tax obligation at an
amount reduced to reflect interest savings. The special tax will appear annually as a
separate line item on the county property tax bill.

The maximum annual tax would be:

-$58.00 per single family dwelling unit or vacant buildable parcel

-$35.00 per dwelling unit on 'all multifamily parcels

-$0.04 per square foot of building space for all commercial parcels

The maximum tax rate would be reduced in the future if additional dwelling units or commercial building space are added to the Town of Tiburon, either through new construction ,
or annexation. It is impossible at this time to specify-'the amount of any such reductions.

The special tax would be imposed and the bonds issued if this ballot measure is approved
by 2/3’s of the voters voting in the municipal election on November 8, 1994.

A "Yes" vote authorizes issuance of the bonds and imposition of the special tax for the
new Tiburon Police and Administrative Facility.

A "No" vote rejects authorization of the bond issuance and imposition of the special tax
for the new Tiburon Police and Administrative Facility.

