<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This ordinance will impose a tax on consumers of certain utility services within the City of Vista
for the use or consumption of those services. The utility services subject to the tax include
intrastate telephone, electricity, both natural and refined gas energy source, water, cable
television, and refuse (solid waste) disposal services.

Revenues generated by the tax would be deposited to the City of Vista general fund, and would
be available for appropriation for any legitimate purpose of the City. The City Council has stated
the revenues generated by this tax are needed for additional law enforcement services to the
community and the revenues will be used to pay for the cost of those services.

The tax would be Imposed at the rate of three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the amount of
charges billed to each customer of the utility services. The City estimates the amount of tax paid
by the typical household to be $6.37 per month. The actual amount of the tax to be billed would
vary depending on the total amount of charges billed for utility services subject to the tax.

The ordinance would permit the City Council to establish one or more classes of utility users,
or classes of utility services subject to the tax, that would be exempt from all or a portion of the tax.
The ordinance does not permit the City Council to change the rate of the tax, or to add or delete
utility services subject to the tax, without the approval of the voters.

The tax would be levied in the same manner and at the same rate for all commercial, industrial
and residential customers of the utility services subject to the tax, unless the customer is exempt
from the tax under federal or state law, or by action of the City Council. The amount of tax would
be added to the utility bill of each customer and would be collected by the utility company or
service provider, along with the payment for the utility services. The amount of taxes collected each
month would be paid to the City.

Once the tax has been billed to the utility customer, it becomes a debt owed by that customer
to the City. In the event the customer does not pay the tax, the City may use lawful means to collect
the tax from that customer. The taxes collected by the utility provider become the property of the
City.

The City estimates the revenues generated by the tax would amount to approximately $2.5
million yearly. The amount of revenues generated by the tax may vary from year to year, depending
on the total amount of utility services being billed to customers within the City. The City estimates
the amount of revenues generated by the tax would enable the City to increase the number of
Sheriffs patrol units currently serving the City from eighteen (18) to twenty five (25), and Increase
the number of traffic units from seven (7) to ten (10).

<impartialend>