

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

MEASURE "L"

Pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of California,
the following is the City Attorney’s impartial analysis of Measure “L":

The City does not currently have any regulations to provide any regular
funding for public libraries, The County of Ventura generally provides
funding for establishment, maintenance, and operation of library facilities
throughout the County, including the City of Ventura.

Measure "L" would enact an ordinance that imposes a parcel tax as a
special tax on every legally constituted parcel of land in the City to provide
revenue for "maintenance and operating costs" (as defined in the measure)
of library facilities that are located within the City of Ventura. Revenues
collected could be used for administrative expenses involved in collecting
and processing tax revenues, including processing adjustments and
refunds, but not for construction of "major capital improvements" to the
library system. The measure defines major capital improvements as
improvements or additions to the library system which either significantly
extend the useful life of the library system or significantly add to those
facilities.

The parcel tax would initially be set at $35.00 per parcel for both residential
and non-residential parcels. The amount of revenue budgeted to be
received from this special tax in its first year is $1,100,000 to restore funding
for Ventura libraries. That amount is subject to an annual inflationary
adjustment based on the Consumer Price Index not to exceed 6% per year.
The tax would be levied each consecutive fiscal year unless canceled by a
resolution of the City Council. Any unencumbered revenues remaining at the
end of a fiscal year are to be considered by the City Council in its annual
decision whether to levy the tax for the upcoming year.

Land owned by federal, state, or local governmental entities, religious
organizations and certain other charitable organizations that qualify for an
exemption from ad valorem taxation under state law would be exempt from
the tax.

The measure provides procedures for adjustments and refunds if
appropriate as long as specified claims procedures are followed. Those
procedures in the measure for collection, administration, and adjustments
could be amended by ordinance by the City Council after the measure is
adopted but the base $35 per parcel tax amount could not be changed
except by a two-thirds (2/3) vote by City voters,

