<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J
BY THE SAN PABLO CITY ATTORNEY

Since 1972, California cities have been authorized by state law to establish and levy annual
assessments for street lighting and landscaping purposes. The San Pablo city-wide landscaping and
lighting assessment district was first established in 1982, and has been assessed on real property
within the City annually since that time. The annual proceeds from the assessment are used to
maintain park and recreational facilities such as Davis Park, the Senior Center, Maple Hall, and
Kennedy Plaza; to maintain well-lighted streets for public safety purposes; to maintain City
medians, street trees, and city sidewalks damaged due to such trees; and to remove graffiti, litter
and debris from City streets.

In fiscal year 1995-96, the assessment district generated approximately $814,000 in revenue
to fund the landscaping and lighting services authorized by state law. The current assessment on
single family homes ranges from a low of $57.78 per year to a high of $107.17 per year, with 88%
of such single family residences paying between $60 and $80 per year. Rates for multi-family,
commercial, industrial, agricultural and institutional land uses are contained in the engineer’s
report for fiscal year 1996-1997 on file with the City. The assessment rate was not increased for
fiscal year 1996-1997. This year’s assessment has already been placed on the 1996-1997 property
tax roll by the County Auditor, as it has for the past fourteen years in accordance with state law.

This measure places Ordinance 96-005 before the voters. The ordinance states that without
the current level of assessment the City would be unable to perform the level of services presently
provided through the assessment. Therefore, a significant curtailment of services to the community
and a corresponding decrease in the city workforce could be necessary if the assessment was
discontinued.

The Ordinance will neither increase nor decrease the assessment. If adopted by the voters, this
Ordinance would constitute an expression of approval of the 1996-1997 Assessment and thus
comply with the voter approval requirements of Proposition 218, should such proposition be
adopted by the voters at the November 5, 1996 general election. It would thereby ensure that the
City can rely on a dedicated and secure source of funds in future years for the services currently
funded with this assessment. Any future increases in the assessment would be subject to any and all
voter approval requirements that may be included in state law.

<impartialend>