<impartialend>


CITY OF REEDLEY USERS TAX MEASURE J

(Impartial Analysis by City Attorney)

Existing law of the City of Reedley does not presently provide for a telephone users tax, an electricity users
tax, or a gas users tax. These are typically called “utility users taxes.” If passed by the electorate by a
two-thirds vote, this measure would authorize the City Council of the City of Reedley to consider adoption
of and thereafter to adopt an ordinance providing for the imposition of such taxes. Voter approval of this
measure does not itself impose any utility users taxes. If this measure is adopted and if therafter the City
Council does adopt such an ordinance, this measure limits the taxes that could be imposed to a rate of not
to exceed three percent (3%) of the charges imposed for the services taxed. In other words, this present measure would limit the actual rate that could be adopted by the City Council; a rate lower than 3 % could be enacted by the City Council, but not a higher rate.

If after passage of this measure the City Council were to adopt an Ordinance imposing on utility customers
one or more of the specified utility users taxes, this measure would provide that the total amount of each
such tax charged to each customer could not exceed $500.00 annually per utility service. The tax would
constitute a ’special tax,’ with the proceeds thereof dedicated exclusively to the enhancement or expansion
of fire and police services.

Each utility users tax would be owed by and collected from the person paying for the services (telephone
users, electricity users, natural gas users), and the rate charged would not exceed three percent (3%) of
the charges imposed for such services. All such taxes would be chargeable at a rate of, or at a rate or rates
lower than, three percent (3%), as may be established from time to time by resolution or order of the City
Council.

If this measure passes and if thereafter the City Council adopts an Ordinance imposing the utility users
taxes, the taxes would be paid by the utility customer and collected on a monthly basis along with the utility
bills.

<impartialend>