

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R

Background

During the summer of 1996, the City Council held public meetings to discuss
placing an open space, recreational playing fields and creek restoration ballot
measure before the voters at this election. The Council decided to place this
measure before the voters and has formed a city-wide assessment district for the
purpose of creating the legal mechanism to administer the collection and use of
funds should the City Council, in the event of a favorable vote, continue the
process of assessing property owners on an annual basis. This Measure would
indicate the voters’ preferences about property being assessed an amount of up
to $69 per year on detached single family homes and somewhat lesser amounts
per unit for residential condominiums and apartments. Commercial property
and other types of non-residential land uses would be assessed based upon a formula of equivalent residential units as determined by the City Council.
Proposal

This is an advisory vote which asks whether the majority of voters approve
funding an assessment district. The funds, if approved, would raise money for
three (3) distinct open space related goals. One half of the money raised would
be used to acquire available land on Albany Hill and to improve or maintain the
land as open space. One quarter of the money raised would be used to acquire,
improve, develop, and maintain land for recreational playing fields available to
Albany residents. One quarter of the money raised would be used to improve, restore, develop, and maintain creeks that run through or on the border of Albany.

Voter approval is also being sought in order to comply with provisions of the
state ballot measure which is called the Right to Vote on Taxes Act. If that state
ballot measure passes, then your approval of this Measure is intended to satisfy
the voter approval requirement of the state ballot measure.

Analysis Fiscal Impact

The funds raised are intended to be used for new projects and not to replace
funding of existing projects. The funds could be used with other monies in order
to attain the goals of this Measure.

A “YES” VOTE means you are in favor of property owners being assessed.

A “NO” VOTE means you oppose property owners being assessed.
