<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

The City adopted a Business License Tax in 1991. By then, three appellate court decisions had held that Proposition 62 (requiring voter
approval of such taxes), was contrary to the State Constitution. The State Supreme Court refused to hear appeals of those decisions,
letting them become law. Then, in December 1995, the Supreme Court issued a ruling in a new case that, in effect, overturned some of
those prior decisions. However, it left many legal issues undecided. It did not decide whether taxes adopted or increased between 1991
and 1995 must be approved by voters. Legal experts disagree about the effect of the decision. To end uncertainty, the City Council voted
to put the tax on the ballot and to repeal the existing tax by December 31,1996, unless it is approved by the voters or is clearly found to
be legal. Since state law does not provide for elections on existing taxes, Measure "P" is framed as a new ordinance. If approved by the
voters, it would repeal and replace the existing Business license Tax Ordinance

A “yes” vote on Measure "P" would authorize the City to continue the existing Business License Tax. Any increase in the tax rates would
require approval by the voters.

A "no" vote is a vote against continuing the Business License Tax.

Measure "P“ requires a simple majority vote to pass.

FISCAL IMPACT

There would be no impact on the City budget or on taxpayers if the measure passes.

If the Business License Tax were ended, the City's General Fund budget would need to be cut by approximately $400,000 per year. Under
current state law, the City could not use cuts in non-general fund budgets to Offset the lost Business License Tax money.

The City’s audited financial statements show that the Business License Tax generates about $400,000 per year. It funds 1.2% of the total.

$33.1 Million General Fund budget.

Information on the General Fund Budget is Outlined in the Impartial Analysis for Measure ”O”.

Eliminating the Business License Tax might cause cuts in some City services to the public. The City Council would make final decisions
on any service cuts before approving future budgets.

<impartialend>