<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

BACKGROUND: The transient occupancy tax (TOT) of the City of Coronado imposes a tax on
hotel/motel occupants who rent a hotel/motel room for 25 consecutive days or less. The tax is
collected from the hotel/motel occupant by the operator of the hotel/motel. The hotel/motel
operator delivers the collected tax funds to the City for use for general governmental purposes.

At present, the hotel/motel occupant in Coronado pays a tax equal to eight percent of the rent
charged by the hotel/motel operator. The eight percent tax rate was adopted by the City Council
as a one percent increase over the then-existing seven percent tax rate, and collection began in
May 1995. The City’s adoption and collection conformed with then-existing law, as announced by
final, judicial decisions, that did not require the tax to be approved by the voters.

In December 1995, the California Supreme Court considered a new case that involved a
particular tax adopted by a local agency which had not yet commenced collecting the tax. The
Supreme Court overruled the prior judicial decisions and determined that the tax could not be
collected until the voters of that local jurisdiction had approved the tax. The Supreme Court did not
address the status of a tax previously adopted and already being collected by a city, without voter
approval, in accordance with the prior judicial decisions.

This proposition affords the voters of the City of Coronado the opportunity to vote on an eight
percent rate for the City's transient occupancy tax.

EFFECT OF PROPOSITION: If a majority of the votes cast on this proposition are "yes," then the
collection of the eight percent transient occupancy tax will have received voter approval.

FISCAL IMPACT: The amount of tax revenue that will be gained or lost in a fiscal year as a result
of the approval or disapproval of the measure cannot be determined with certainty without
knowing the amount of rents received by hotel/motel operators during that fiscal year. However,
for Fiscal Year 95-96 ending on June 30,1996, the Department of Finance estimates that the eight
percent transient occupancy tax will be the source of 31.3% of the City’s general revenue, second
only to the revenue from the real property tax.

<impartialend>