<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
EL CENTRO UTILITY TAX MEASURE A

California Proposition 62, adopted in 1986, requires that taxes
adopted by city councils after July, 1985 be submitted to the electorate
for approval, In 1988, and again in 1991, California appellate courts
declared unconstitutional and invalid Proposition 62’s retroactive provisions (City of Westminster) and voter approval requirement for local
taxes (City of Woodlake) The California Supreme Court declined to
review both decisions.

In reliance upon these decisions and the Supreme Court’s actions,
the El Centro City Council adopted a Utility Users’ Tax (Ordinance
No. 91-13) and did not submit the tax to the city’s electorate. The
tax raises revenues to maintain general government services including
police, fire, emergency, administrative, library, parks and recreation.

Four years later, the California Supreme Court changed its position
and declared constitutional Proposition 62’s voter approval requirement for local taxes. (Guarding). The ruling became final on December 14, 1995. The decision brings into question El Centro’s
Utility Users' Tax.

In response, the El Centro City Council has placed the Utility Users’
Tax (Ordinance Nos. 95-9 and 96-2) on the ballot for voter approval
of its continuance after August 1,1996. The measure would continue
the 4% tax upon the following services: electrical: gas; cable television;
specified telephone; water; sewage disposal; and garbage, rubbish
and refuse removal. The tax rate cannot be increased without
the prior approval of the voters.

A program for granting exemptions for low income taxpayers (found
in City Council Resolutions 91-66 and 94-102) and for the payment
of refunds has been established as authorized by the ordinance. A
majority vote in favor of this measure will mean that the Utility Users’
Tax will continue after August 1, 1996. A majority vote against will
mean that the tax will have to be repealed.

<impartialend>