IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

ORDINANCE NO. 96-09
PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX TO FUND POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES
PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

The City of Galt receives revenue from ad valorem {value based) property taxes which are
restricted in amount by Article of the California Constitution. In addition, Article
permits the imposition of special taxes upon approval of two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on
the measure. Subject to the requirements of Article, California Government Code
section 53978 authorizes a special tax to fund police and fire protection services. Ordinance
No. 96-09 is a proposal by the City of Galt for such a special tax to fund police protection
services.

Approval of Ordinance No. 96-09 would result in a special tax to be levied on all improved
parcels within the City for a five-year period commencing on July 1,1997, and terminating
on June 30,2002. The assessed amount would be based on the use of each parcel. Primary
uses are residential and commercial. Residential uses are either single or multifamily.
Parcels with two or more residential units, including parcels improved with mobile home
parks, are included in the multi-family residential zone. The commercial classification
includes all improved parcels used for commercial, industrial and manufacturing purposes.
Each business located on a commercial parcel would be subject to a separate assessment.
However, multiple parcels associated with a single business would be subject to a single
assessment.

Parcels used for certain purposes would be exempt from the special tax. These include
parcels owned by all government entities, parcels used for religious purposes, parcels used
for certain public and private school purposes and unimproved parcels. Exempt parcels will
be subject to the special tax if used for nonexempt purposes or, in the case of unimproved

parcels, if improved.

Ordinance No. 96-09 sets forth the assessments for each year of the special tax. Each
single-family parcel would be assessed the same amount. The assessment for each multi-family parcel shall be the per unit amount multiplied by the number of units located on the
parcel. The assessment for each commercial parcel shall be the per business amount
multiplied by the number of businesses located on the parcel. The amount of the
assessments cannot be increased and the term of the special tax cannot be extended
without prior approval of two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the measure.

The special tax would be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty
as other charges and taxes collected by Sacramento County on behalf of the City of Galt.

Special tax revenues could only be used to pay the costs of police protection services.
Such costs include paying for the salaries and benefits to police protection personnel,
obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus,
and any other such police protection expenses. Unexpended revenues would be carried over
to succeeding years to be used only for police protection services. Special tax revenues
cannot be co-mingled with the City’s general fund revenues.
