

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CALEXICO UTILITY TAX MEASURE B

California Proposition 62, adopted in 1986, required that taxes
adopted by city councils after July, 1985 had to be submitted to the
electorate for approval. In 1988, and again in 1991, California appellate
courts declared unconstitutional and invalid Proposition 62’s retroactive provisions (City of Westminster) and voter approval requirement
for local taxes. (City of Wood lake).

In reliance upon these decisions and the Supreme Court's actions,
the Calexico City Council adopted a Utility Users’ Tax (Ordinance No.
922) and did not submit the tax to the city’s electorate. The tax raises
revenues to maintain general government services including police,
fire, emergency, administrative, library, parks and recreation.

Four years later, the California Supreme Court changed its position
and declared constitutional Proposition 62’s voter approval requirement for local taxes. (Guarding). The ruling becomes final on December 14, 1995. The decision brings into question Calexico’s
Utility Users’ Tax.

In response, the Calexico City Council has placed the Utility User's
Tax (Ordinance No. 922) on the ballot for voter approval of its continuance after August 1, 1996. The measure would continue the 5%
tax upon the following services: defined telephone communication
services, electrical energy, gas, and cable television services in the
City. The tax rate cannot be increased without the prior approval of
the voters. The utility tax is anticipated to raise $836,000 during fiscal
year 1995-1996, and represents approximately 9.68% of the City’s
total general fund expenditures.

The proposed ordinance also authorizes the establishment of a program for granting exemptions for low income taxpayers, and for the
payment of refunds. A majority vote in favor of this measure will
mean that the Utility Users’ Tax will continue after August 1, 1996.
A majority vote against will mean that the tax is repealed.

