IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE BB

This measure requests voter approval of a city ordinance to continue
the City’s business license tax system, based upon gross receipts,
as established by the City Council in 1991. The business license tax
is required of any business doing business within the city limits.

Prior to 1991, the City, for many years, maintained a business license
tax system wherein the business license tax was determined- by a
flat rate approach. For example, a manufacturer paid an annual business license tax flat rate of $30 + $1,50/employee; a supermarket,
$30 + $3/employee; a retailer, $30 + $3/employee, and so on.

This flat rate system was adjusted by the City Council in 1991 to a
new tax system based upon gross receipts. The business license tax
is now computed by gross receipts reported by any given business
in relation to their gross profit margin. For example, a manufacturer’s
license tax will vary on its volume of business.

After the 1991 enactment of the gross receipts system, the City received higher business license tax income. The City Council has now
chosen to place this "gross receipts" business license tax system
before the voters at this time, because of a recent California Supreme
Court decision, in the case of Santa Clara County Transportation
Authority v. Guarding.

In the Guardino case, the California Supreme Court ruled Proposition
62 to be constitutionally valid. Proposition 62 was adopted by California voters as a statewide initiative in 1986. It provided, in part,
that the adoption of any new or increased general tax by local government, first requires voter approval by a simple majority vote. Between 1986 and 1995, several California state appellate courts had
ruled Proposition 62 to be unconstitutional, (e.g., City of Woodlake
v. Logan, 230 Cal. App. 3d 1058) in good faith reliance on these
appellate decisions, many cities and counties, the City of Garden
Grove among them, adopted general tax increases throughout Cali-
fornia, without first submitting the tax to the voters.

As of this writing, the Supreme Court opinion has not been made
final by the court. Assuming the Guardino decision remains un-
changed, the decision appears to have the dear impact of prohibiting
the enactment of a new or increased tax, without a vote of the people.
It is not clear whether the decision operates retroactively to invalidate
tax increases which were instituted prior to this decision.

The City Council, in anticipating a possible retroactive application to
the business license tax "gross receipts" system, has chosen to place
it on the ballot for voter approval. If a simple majority of the voters
approve the ordinance, it then would be returned to the City Council
for final action.

