

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP MEASURE DD

If Measure "DD" is adopted, it would authorize the City of Desert Hot
Springs to levy an annual police services special excise tax in the
amounts described below, if it first terminates:

1.	The Utility Users Tax.

2.	The Landscaping and Lighting City-wide Assessment.

3.	The Mello-Roos Community Facility District Assessment

for Rancho Del Oro.

The municipal special excise tax for police services, if approved by
two-thirds of the total votes cast, would be deposited in a special,
restricted account and could only be expended for police services.
The special excise tax would be imposed in the amounts following:

A.	An annual special police services excise tax upon residential

property at the maximum rate of:

1.	$260 per parcel for a single family dwelling, condominium,

or mobile home or parcel upon which a mobile home is
placed when the parcel thereunder is owned by the owner
in fee.

2.	$360 per unit for the first unit (base amount) of a multiple
family dwelling and $80 for each additional unit.

B.	An annual special police services excise tax upon improved
commercial and industrial property at the maximum rate of
$120 per parcel, and $0.10 per square foot.

C.	An annual special police services excise tax upon hotel and
motel property at the maximum rate of:

1.	$360 per hotel and/or motel (base amount), imposed on
the first unit of the hotel/motel.

2.	$60 per unit for hotel and/or motel units over base.

D.	An annual special municipal police services excise tax upon
unimproved properties, at the rate of $164 per vacant parcel.

A "yes” vote on Measure “DD" is a vote to eliminate the Utility Users
tax, eliminate the City-wide Landscaping and Lighting Assessment
and eliminate the Rancho Del Oro Mello-Roos Assessment. After
City Council repeals all three of these taxes, Measure would
allow the City to levy and collect a municipal special excise tax for
police services. A “no” vote on Measure DD is a vote against the
approval and levy and collection of a municipal special excise tax
for police services.

