

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS Of MEASURE Z

This measure will enable the Coachella City Council to charge general taxes to businesses, hotel guests and utility users in the City of
Coachella. This Impartial Analysis is required for the purpose of advising you, the voter, of the meaning and effect of the ordinance to be

adopted by this measure.

This measure is unique! It gives needed flexibility to the City Council to charge only those taxes necessary to provide essential services
to the residents of the City of Coachella. It does this in three ways.

First, the measure requires the City Council to tax businesses and hotel guests before taxing Coachella residents and businesses that use
utility services such as electricity, cable television, gas, telephone and water.

Second, the utility tax can only be used to allow Coachella to catch up to 1930. In 1990, the City’s revenue from all tax sources was equal
to $305 per resident. As soon as the City’s revenue from ail tax sources catches up to the 1990 level, the City Council cannot charge this
tax.

Third, the measure imposes other controls on the City Council’s ability to impose a tax on utility users. Before imposing such a tax, the
City Council is required to:

(a)	Invite the residents to attend public hearings to consider the need for such a tax;

(b)	Determine that City management has implemented all reasonable measures to reduce the City’s expenditures;

(e) Determine that City management has pursued other sources of revenues;

(d)	Determine that City management has considered all suggestions to reduce costs and obtain revenues from other sources.

Next, the measure gives the City Council the ability to increase taxes on businesses up to ten percent (10%) of their gross revenue. This
is greater than the amount under the City’s business license ordinance, it also allows the City Council to change the amount of the tax
for businesses that employ large numbers of City residents or that bring In large amounts of sales taxes. This is a real incentive for good

businesses.

Also, the measure gives the City Council the ability to impose taxes on hotel guests up to fifteen percent (15%) of their hotel bill. This is
greater than the amount under the City’s hotel tax ordinance. It also allows the City Council to change the amount of the tax in order to
attract hotels to the City. This is a real incentive for hotels.

This measure gives the City of Coachella a great advantage over other cities to attract new businesses. With new businesses, Coachella
can go beyond 1990.

