<impartial>

CITY OF SAN RAMON

City Attorney Impartial Analysis of Measure K

Since 1985 the City of San Ramon has funded maintenance of certain landscaped arterial
roadway medians, roadside areas and street lighting considered to benefit the entire City through a
City-wide per parcel assessment levied under the Landscaping and Lighting Act. For single family
residential properties, the City-wide assessment for fiscal year 1996-97 is $53 per parcel. For other
than single family residential land uses the per parcel City-wide assessment is computed based upon
factors set forth in the 1996-97 Engineer's Report. A copy of the Engineer's Report is available for
review at the City of San Ramon Engineering Services Department. Funding for maintenance of
landscaped areas and lighting considered to benefit individual neighborhoods rather than the entire
City has come from assessments levied against the benefitted neighborhoods through creation of
special zones.

Measure K was submitted to the voters by a unanimous vote of the San Ramon City Council
for the express purpose of conforming with the provisions in the Right to Vote on Taxes Initiative
(Proposition 218; November 5, 1996 general election) exempting from the mailed ballot procedures
established under the initiative any assessment which previously received majority voter approval.

In the event the Right to Vote on Taxes Initiative (Proposition 218) passes, a favorable vote
on Measure K would allow uninterrupted funding of the City-wide landscaping and street lighting
work through continued levy for fiscal year 1997-98 of the current City-wide $53 per single family
residential parcel assessment increased for fiscal year 1998-99 and beyond to $59 per parcel to cover
additional costs resulting from the widening of San Ramon Valley Boulevard. Non-single family
residential parcels would continue to be assessed at the current 1996-97 level. The annual City-wide
assessment could not be increased beyond $59 per single family residential parcel nor beyond the
amount currently assessed for other land uses except through compliance with the mailed ballot
procedures of Proposition 218.

Measure K applies only to the City-wide assessment. Continued levy of the special zone
assessments beyond fiscal year 1996-97 will require compliance with the mailed ballot procedures
of Proposition 218 in the event the initiative is approved by the voters on November 5.

<impartialend>