<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION C

The ballot proposition submitted to the voters seeks to validate two past increases
in the City’s transient occupancy tax that were approved by the City Council.
These increases consisted of a 1% increase approved by the Council in 1991 and
a 2% increase approved by the Council in 1994.

The transient occupancy tax is a tax on the privilege of occupying a hotel room
in the City. The current rate is 14% of the rent charged by the operator of the
hotel to a guest for the occupancy of a room. The proposed proposition would
not change the rate of the tax, but simply validate the existing rate of 14%.

This ballot proposition is proposed in response to a recent California Supreme
Court decision. When the transient occupancy tax was increased in 1991 and 1994,
courts had ruled that general taxes could be adopted by the City Council without
a vote of the electorate. General taxes are taxes devoted to general city services
(such as police, fire, and park maintenance) and are not restricted to a special
or limited purpose. The California Supreme Court recently overturned those
earlier decisions, holding that general taxes require voter approval under the
provisions of a statewide voter initiative approved in 1986 known as Proposition
62. The City Council has proposed this proposition to allow the voters to validate
the three percent increase in the tax adopted without voter approval since 1986.

A yes vote on the ballot question ratifies the past collection of the 3% increase
in the transient occupancy tax described above and authorizes the continued
collection of the tax at the rate of 14%. A no vote will result in a reduction of
the transient occupancy tax to 11% and a possible liability to the City for the past
collection of the tax increases approved in 1991 and 1994. The difference between
an 11% and a 14% tax rate is more than $2,100,000 in tax revenues per year for
the City.

<impartialend>