

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

The purpose of this proposed initiative ordinance is to impose a general tax of the City
of Isleton in the sum of $150.00 for each new application for a license to carry a concealed
pistol, revolver or other firearm within the State of California.

The proposed initiative ordinance would also impose a City general tax of $50.00 for the
renewal of each such license. The tax revenues would be collected by the Chief of Police
at the time of the issuance of the license and such revenues would be transferred to the
City Treasurer. The revenues of the tax would be deposited in the general fund of the City.

Tax revenues deposited in the City of Isleton general fund are used by the City for various
public purposes, including police protection, fire protection, support of public parks, the
funding of public works projects and the support of the general governmental activities of
the City.

Section 12054 of the California Penal Code presently authorizes the City to impose a fee
for the processing of applications for licenses to carried concealed weapons in the amount
of $3.00 for each such application.

The Police Department previously imposed a fee of $150.00 for the processing of each
application for a concealed weapons license and a fee of $50.00 for the renewal of such
a license. That practice was discontinued in 1995 after the Office of the California Attorney
General advised the City that such fees, to the extent that they exceeded the actual costs
of processing such applications or renewals, would constitute "special taxes.” Such taxes
require voter approval before they can be imposed.

This initiative ordinance seeks the approval of the electorate of the City to impose a general
tax for the issuance of such licenses and a general tax for the renewal of such licenses in
the same amounts as the fees for such activities that were challenged by the California
Attorney General in 1995 as being illegal special taxes.

No provisions of California law appear to expressly authorize the enactment by the City
electorate of the general taxes on concealed weapon license applications or renewals as
proposed in the initiative ordinance. Conversely, no provision of California law appears to
expressly prohibit the enactment of such general taxes by City voters by an initiative
ordinance.

This ordinance must be approved by a majority of the voters of the City voting ,on this
measure before it becomes effective. Under the California laws, initiative measures approved
by the City electorate cannot be amended without the further approval of a majority of the
City electorate voting on such an amendment.

A “YES” VOTE ON THIS MEASURE APPROVES THE PROPOSED TAXES.

A "NO" VOTE ON THIS MEASURE DISAPPROVES THE PROPOSED TAXES.

