<impartial>	

LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING ASSESSMENT
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

BY THE EL CERRITO CITY ATTORNEY

Since 1972, California cities have been authorized by State law to establish assessment
districts to finance the installation or maintenance of park and recreational improvements, including

street lighting. In 1988, the El Cerrito City Council established Assessment District No. 1988-1, under
the authority provided by this State law.

Every year since 1988, the Council has levied an annual assessment of $72.00 on single family homes in the City, and proportionate amounts for other property uses, to finance landscaping
and lighting services. The assessment district generates approximately $745,000 yearly. This money
is used to maintain City parks, recreational facilities, street lighting, medians, street trees, litter removal
and street sweeping activities along San Pablo Avenue. The City has not raised the annual assessment since its inception in 1988. 

Through Measure G, the City seeks confirmation of Ordinance No. 96-9. authorizing the
continued collection of the assessment at its present rate for fiscal years 1997-1998 and following.
This will continue the assessment at $72.00 for single family residences, and such other amounts for other properties contained in the engineer’s report for the 1996-1997 fiscal year Ordinance No. 96-9 as specified by State law. The assessment proceeds will he dedicated exclusively to landscaping and lighting services.

The recommendation that the existing landscaping and lighting assessment be retained and
put to a vote was made by a citizen task force. The City Council charged the task force U> evaluate
City services and finances and issue recocmendations regarding the appropriate level of City services
and the best method to finance these services.

According to Ordinance No 96-9, the citizen task force concluded that the services
provided through the landscaping and lighting assessment are essential to the well-being of the City
and City property owners The task force further determined that without the assessment, the City
would be unable to perform the maintenance and lighting services provided through the district. This
was based on the conclusion that the $745.000 generated yearly through the assessment could not be
funded through the general fund without significantly reducing general fund services. The task force
was unanimous in finding that City services were already at or below acceptable levels and should not
be reduced any further.

Adoption of Ordinance No. 96-9 also will constitute an expression of approval of the
assessment in compliance with the voter requirements of Proposition 218, the Right To Vote On Taxes
Act, should that proposition be adopted by the voters. This will ensure that the City can continue to
rely in the future on a dedicated and secure source of funds for landscaping and lighting activities.

<impartialend>