

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

The proposed ordinance, the “Senior Citizens’ Services Retention and Enhancement
Act of 1996”, would impose a fifteen year city-wide special tax to fund programs and
services for the elderly to: (1) staff, operate and maintain a network of five multipurpose senior centers; (2) support legal assistance programs; (3) provide meals and food
programs; (4) assist care management programs for special needs clients; (5) provide
caregiver support; (6) provide escort services; (7) provide social services transportation;
(8) support an information and referral service; (9) provide senior employment and volunteer opportunities; (10) develop outreach services for isolated underserved seniors;
(11) identify and respond to special education needs; and (12) expand ombudsman services.

The Mayor’s Commission on Aging will be the advisory committee to assist the City
Council in overseeing the expenditure of the tax revenues.

The City Council may adjust the annual tax rates by a maximum of 5% after the third
year of the tax’s implementation, consistent with annual increases in the cost of living
in the San Francisco Bay Area.

Low-income homeowners could qualify for an exemption from the tax by providing
income documentation. The use of tax proceeds for City administration costs is limited to 3% and no central overhead charges may be imposed by the City.

The tax is based upon a per parcel rate of $25.00 for single family residential units,
$17.00 per unit for multi-unit residential parcels and $13.00 per “single family equivalent” for nonresidential parcels, such as industrial and commercial property. The
multi-unit residential rate is reduced by 50% to $8.50 per unit if the majority of the residential units on such parcel have been vacant at least 6 months out of a year. For the
different categories of nonresidential property, tax liability is based on a standard measurement determined to be the equivalent of a single family residential unit. This formula is expressed in terms of parcel frontage and area.

The tax is estimated to annually generate $3.4 million in revenues, before allowable
exemptions and county collection fees, during each of the first three fiscal years. Any
unspent tax revenues from one year will be carried over to the next fiscal year for the above program purposes only. The proposed tax revenues may not supplant any existing funding for senior citizens’ programs derived from the General Fund. In order for
the City to collect this tax, the City must maintain a General Fund contribution of $2.02
million annually to senior citizens’ programs.

Ordinances adopted by a 2/3 voter approval for special taxes similar to this proposed
ordinance have been upheld by the California Supreme Court.

