<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Background

On February 9, 1993, the voters of the Town of Colma approved a measure authorizing cardroom operations in the Town of
Colma, subject to zoning and other regulations to be adopted by the city council. Later, the council adopted a Cardroom Ordinance
which included a tax on the gross revenues of a cardroom, but not revenues from the restaurant and bar. In 1995, the city council
amended the ordinance regarding the cardroom permit tax.

On September 28, 1995, the California Supreme Court ruled that any tax adopted by a city after 1985 had to be submitted to the
voters of the city for approval before it became effective. In compliance with that ruling, the Colma City Council placed the card-
room permit tax on the ballot for a vote of the electorate.

Proposal

The Cardroom Permit Tax will, if passed by the voters, approve an ordinance which would tax the gross revenues if there is a
cardroom in Colma. The tax will not be paid by residents of the Town. It will be paid by the cardroom operator and, indirectly, by
persons who play cards there.

The Cardroom Permit Tax is independent of Measure A - the Ordinance Banning Cardrooms. Passage of the Cardroom Permit
Tax by Colma voters will not affect the outcome of the measure to ban cardrooms. The Cardroom Permit Tax measure is worded so
that the tax applies only if cardrooms are allowed to operate in the Town.

The tax is applied only to gross revenues from cardroom operations. It will not apply to revenues from the bar or restaurant.

This is a graduated tax, that is, the tax rate increases as the gross revenues increase. The tax begins at 5% of gross revenues up
to $800,000 per year and rises to 20% of gross revenues over $3,000,000 per year.

The revenues from this tax will be deposited to the city’s general fund.

A “yes” vote on this measure approves the cardroom permit tax previously adopted by the City Council of the Town of Colma.
A “no” vote would not ban cardrooms; it would, however, disapprove any tax on cardroom operations.

Fiscal Effect

If a cardroom is allowed in the Town of Colma, this tax could produce revenues for the Town estimated between $1,400,000
and $8,500,000 per year.

The projection of revenues from any new operation is, however, somewhat speculative because there are a variety of factors
which affect revenues including the economy in general, the competition, management skills of the operator, and so forth.
Moreover, there would be an increase in the demand for city services, which is also too difficult to quantify with any degree of certainty. The cost of those services would reduce the net benefits to the Town. Thus, approval of this tax along with approval of a
cardroom would probably result in substantial new revenues to the Town, the exact amount of which is unknown.

<impartialend>