<impartial>


CITY OF ORANGE COVE UTILITY USERS’ TAX MEASURE H

(Impartial Analysis by City Attorney)

In 1989, the Orange Cove City Council adopted a utility users’ tax. A process similar to the one used by the
City Council to adopt that tax was recently found by a court to be unconstitutional in a case brought against
another public agency elsewhere in California. Since that court decision was announced, several cities,
other than Orange Cove, have been sued over tax measures which they had adopted using this process.
These suits have argued that any such tax measure should have gone to a vote of the public after the vote
of the City Council. The Orange Cove City Council has placed this tax measure before you, the voters, so
that, if a majority of you approve this measure, the City can continue to receive these monies without having
to pay for expensive and time consuming litigation.

This ballot measure, if adopted, would re-enact this same tax, at the same rate which the utility customers
in Orange Cove have been paying since the Council adopted this tax over six years ago. The rate of this tax
will be seven percent of the charge to the customer for utility service and will apply to each of the following
services: telephone calls made within California; electrical energy services; natural gas delivered through
mains or pipes (rather than by tank or bottle). The tax would be collected by the utility company as a part
of a customer’s bill. The tax money would then be forwarded from the utility to the City of Orange Cove.

If this measure passes, the rate of the tax could not be increased above seven percent and the types of
utilities to which it applied could not be increased without a further vote of the people. However, the City
Council would be empowered to adopt and modify the rules regarding the collection of this money by the
utility companies involved, their payment of these monies to the City of Orange Cove and other, similar,
procedural matters.

For each of the years in which this tax has been collected, the City Council has deposited the money collected
from the tax in the City’s general fund and has appropriated money from the general fund in a similar amount
to pay the Fresno County Sheriff‘s office for providing police services in the City of Orange Cove. There
has not in any of these years been any legally binding requirement that these funds be used for this purpose.
If this measure passes, there would be no additional legal requirements imposed on the City Council and
these funds would be spent as a majority of the City Council decided was in the best interests of the residents
of the City of Orange Cove.

<impartialend>