<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

Measure "N" asks the voters whether the City of Arcata should
adopt a utility users tax. The tax would be imposed for four years
at the rate of three percent (3%) of the usage of the following
utility services: (1) Intrastate telephone communication services
billed to an account located within the City’s boundaries: (2) Electrical energy services supplied by an electric corporation or non-
utility supplier and used within the City’s boundaries: (3) Gas
services supplied by a gas corporation or non-utility supplier which
is transported either through pipes or by mobile transport and used
within the City’s boundaries: (4) Water services supplied by the
City to a user located within the City’s boundaries; (5) Wastewater
collection services provided by the City’s wastewater collection system; and (6) Cable television services used within the City’s
boundaries.

Numerous exemptions to the tax are expressly provided upon adequate proof to the Tax Administrator. First, persons who receive
Low Income Rate Assistance ("LIRA") from a gas or electrical corporation would be exempt from the tax on gas or electrical utility
usage. Second, persons who receive "Universal Lifeline Service"
from a telephone corporation would be exempt from paying the tax
on basic telephone services. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt additional classes of persons or
utilities. Finally, the tax would not be levied against persons or
entities exempt by law including local governmental agencies, pub-
lic schools and Humboldt State University.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider.
For each type of utility service taxed, taxation would be limited to
a maximum of SI,000.00 per fiscal year, upon adequate proof to
the Tax Administrator that taxes will reach or exceed the 81,000.00
maximum year for a particular utility.

The utility users tax is a general tax and all revenue generated
by the tax would go to the City’s general fund to fund essential
governmental services including, but not limited to, police, public
works, parks and recreation and other essential government services provided by the City. It is estimated that the tax will generate
approximately $500,000.00 of the City’s general fund budget of 4.4
million dollars for fiscal year 1996-1997.

The tax as proposed in Measure "N" is identical to the present
utility users tax, adopted by the Council in 1993. Voter approval
of this Measure would simultaneously repeal the City’s present
utility users tax and adopt a new utility users tax as described
above, effective December 1, 1996. The new utility users tax
would then terminate automatically on November 30, 2000, four
years after its adoption. This Measure must be approved by a
majority of the voters.

<impartialend>