<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “O"

LEGAL 

The City adopted a Utility Tax in 1991, By then, three appellate court decisions had held that Proposition 62 (voter approval of general
taxes) was contrary to the State Constitution. The State Supreme Court refused to hear appeals of those decisions, letting them become
law. Then, in December 1916, the Supreme Court issued a ruling in a new case that, in effect, overturned some of those prior decisions.
However, ft did not decide whether taxes adopted between 1991 and 1995 must be approved by voters. Legal experts disagree about the,
effect of the decision. To end uncertainty, the City Council voted to put the tax on the ballot and to repeal the existing tax toy December
31,1996, unless it is approved by the voters or is clearly found to be legal. Since state law does not provide for elections on existing taxes,
Measure “O” is framed as a new ordinance, if approved by the voters, it would repeal and replace the existing Utility Tax ordinance.

A “yes” vote on Measure "0" would authorize the City to continue the existing 6% Utility Tax. It fixes the tax rate at 6%. Any increase in
the tax rate would require approval by the voters,

A “no” vote is a vote against continuing the Utility Tax.

Measure “O” requires a simple majority vote to pass.

FISCAL IMPACT

There would be no impact on the City budget or taxpayers if the measure passes.

If the Utility Tax is ended, the City’s General Fund budget would need to be cut by about $7.1 million per year. Under current state law,
the City could not use cuts in non-genera! fund budgets to offset the lost Utility Tax money.

The City’s budget and audited financial statements show:

•	The Utility Tax generates about $7.1 million per year. It is the City’s single largest revenue source. It funds 21.45% of the total
General Fund budget.

•	The $33.1 million of expenses in the General Fund budget consists of;

$19.6 million in public safety costs. Fire ($5.1 million),"Grossing
Guards ($169,000), Animal Control ($534,000) and support for the volunteer Emergency Response Force
($230,000).

$6.1 million In costs paid for by dedicated funds. Dedicated funds are tied to specific services. They may not
be spent for any other purpose violating the law and/or losing some or all of the funds. This figure does not
dedicated pub's, safety funds.

$4.6 million in general government costs. This includes: accounting; Anti-Graffiti; City Attorney, Clerk, Manager
and Treasurer; Economic Development; MVTV-3 Cable TV; Personnel; Public Information; Risk Management;
Street Trees; and parts of Code Compliance, Development Services, and Public Works. Some of these functions
are required to meet state or federal laws.

$2.8 million in "fixed" costs. These are insurance, debts, rent and contract obligations.

Eliminating the Utility Tax would cause substantial cuts in City services to the public. The City Council would make final decisions on
service cuts before approving future budgets.

<impartialend>