<impartial>

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL SUMMARY OF BALLOT MEASURE

The Town Council of the Town of Los Gatos placed this measure on the
ballot to determine whether a 2% utility users tax will be imposed on the
following utility services to all utility users in the Town: 1) electrical service; 2)
gas service; 3) basic telephone service and telephone calls to places within
California; 4) cable television service; and 5) water service. For example, if
electrical service for a consumer cost $50 for a certain month, a utility users tax of
$1 would be charged for that month. The tax would be placed on utility service
for which a billing period begins on or after June 1, 1996, and would
automatically expire 5 years later for utility service for which a billing period
begins on or after June 1, 2001.

The Town estimates that the tax would generate approximately $800,000
per year, which would go into the Town's general fund for general government
purposes, including capital improvements, in the Town. The tax would be
collected by utility companies as part of their regular monthly billings. Utility
service would not be terminated if only the tax was not paid; instead, the utility
company would refer such a tax delinquency to the Town for collection.

In addition to the exemptions from the tax required by the State
Constitution, the Town Code would allow households with annual incomes of less
than $26,300 (adjusted each year by a Consumers Price Index) to apply for
exemption from paying the tax. The Code would also cap the amount of utility users tax that any consumer would have to pay on any single utility service at
$5,000 per year.

Because under the proposed measure, the tax revenue would be put into the
Town's general fund for general Town government purposes, a majority vote of
the Town's voters voting in this election is required to approve the measure.
Because the tax would be adopted by a vote of the people, the tax rate during the
five years that the tax is in effect could not be increased except by another vote of
the people, and under current California law, the tax could not be extended beyond
June 1, 2001, without another vote of the people.

<impartialend>