<impartial>

IMPARTIAL BALLOT ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N96

Chapter 3.20 of the Solvang Municipal Code currently sets forth
definitions and procedures for collecting a transient occupancy
tax. A transient occupancy tax is a tax paid by a guest at a
‘hotel’ and is a percentage of the amount paid by the guest to the
"hotel" operator. Measure N96 would amend two portions of Chapter
3.20.

If Measure N96 passes, campground and recreational vehicle park
would be added to the definition of "hotel".

From October 11, 1995 through October 11, 1996, the tax rate was
10%. On October 12, 1996, the tax rate was set at 8%. If Measure
N96 passes, the tax rate would again be set at 10% of the rent
charged by the operator of the "hotel".

The transient occupancy tax can be used for any lawful obligation
or expanse of the city.

Sections 1 through 3 of Measure N96 read as follow:

Section 1: The definition of "Hotel* in section 3.20-010 of
the Solvang Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Hotel. Any structure or land, or any portion of any structure
or land, which is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes
any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home, house trailer, or
vehicle at a fixed location, or other similar structure or land or
portion thereof, including a camping site or a space at a
campground or recreational vehicle park.

Section 2: Section 3.20.020 of the Solvang Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:

3.20.020 Tax—Imposed on transients;rate: when payable. For
the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject
to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the
rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by
the transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to
the operator or to the City. The transient shall pay the tax to
the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the
rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax 3hell be due
upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for
any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the
City Clerk may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the
city Clerk.

Section 3:	The taxes collected pursuant to the preceding section shall be used for any lawful obligation or expense of the City. 

<impartialend>