<impartial>	

CITY ATTORNEY’S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

PITTSBURG LANDSCAPE AND LIGHTING ASSESSMENT MEASURE
NOVEMBER 5, 1996

In 1988 the City Council created the Citywide Landscaping and Lighting District for the
purpose of improving and maintaining the landscaping and lighting of city parks and facilities,
medians, rights of way and streets. The District includes all property within the City, with the
exception of the Oak Hills subdivision, which is separately assessed under another district. Property
owners within the Citywide District pay assessments each year that provide $1,864,653.90 annually
for landscaping and lighting services. Each residential parcel is currently assessed $77.18 per year.
Other parcels, such as commercial and industrial, are assessed amounts according to a formula
established by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council.

If Measure “I” is approved by a majority of the voters within the Citywide District, then the
City of Pittsburg may continue to impose assessments in that District, but not in excess of the current
amounts per parcel.

In the November 5,1996, general election, California voters statewide will decide whether
to approve Proposition 218, the “Right to Vote on Taxes Act”. If the voters approve Proposition 218,
new procedural requirements will apply to many assessment districts, including the Citywide District
for landscaping and lighting. Proposition 218 includes an exemption for measures previously approved
by a majority of the voters in a given community. Pittsburg’s Measure “I” would qualify for this
exemption if approved by local voters.

If both Proposition 218 and Measure “I” are approved, then the City Council could not
increase the assessments in the Citywide District in the future without voter approval by affected
property owners. If Proposition 218 is defeated, invalidated or determined to be inapplicable to the
Citywide District, then Measure “I” would also be inoperative.

<impartialend>