<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

This ballot measure is presented to the voters of the City of Garden Grove by the City Council. It asks the voters whether: 1) to reduce the
existing business license tax rate applied to all businesses doing business within the City of Garden Grove by 15% across the board; and 2) to
maintain the existing business license tax based upon a gross receipts system of taxation as set forth in Title 5 of the Garden Grove Municipal
Code (enacted by City ordinance 2194 on August 6,1991).

In 1991, the City of Garden Grove City Council changed its business license tax system from a flat rate system to a gross receipts system to
create a more equitable system of taxing businesses within the city. As an example, under the flat rate system, a manufacturer paid an annual
business tax of $30 plus $1.50 per employee; a supermarket, $30 plus $3 per employee; a retailer, $30 plus $3 per employee, and so on. Under
the gross receipts system, the license tax is now computed by gross receipts reported by any given business in relation to their gross income. In
this way, larger sized businesses (which are generally assumed to place greater demand on the City for governmental services) pay a larger amount
of business license tax. This gross receipts system also resulted in an increase in total business license tax income to the City beginning in 1991.

Subsequently, in late 1995, the California Supreme Court rendered a decision in Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority v. Guardino
which held that any new or increased taxes would first have to be referred to a vote of the people before final enactment. This decision however
did not make clear whether it applied retroactively to past tax increases. A voter approval of this ballot measure would eliminate the legal uncertainly
that the Guardino decision has created with respect to the business license tax increase of 1991. It would also reduce the business license tax rate
by 15%. (See sections 1 and 2 of proposed City ordinance)

If the voters do approve the ordinance by a majority vote, the 15% business license tax reduction will take effect on December 31,1996.

<impartialend>