<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE O

This is an Advisory Measure Only.

In November, 1995, the San Luis Obispo City Council established
a fifteen member “Open Space Financing Task Force” to evaluate
and recommend to the Council ways of providing long-term funding
for open space protection.

The primary recommendation of the Task Force was to place an
advisory ballot measure on the November 5,1996 ballot to determine
whether or not City voters would support the creation of a City-wide
assessment district for open space protection and park acquisition
and development which would raise $1 million annually in accordance
with the program guidelines recommended by the Task Force. (A
summary of the Task Force program guidelines is included in the
Ballot Pamphlet.)

In June, 1996, the City Council reviewed the Task Force recommendations and directed that this advisory ballot measure be submitted
to the voters of the City.

As an advisory vote only, this measure will provide an indication of
general voter opinion regarding the ballot proposal, but will not create
an assessment district, and the results of the advisory vote are not
controlling on the City Council. The actual creation of an assessment
district, should the Council choose to proceed, would require separate
Council action at some future date, including public notice and hearing
as required by law.

The estimated monthly cost for residential and nonresidential properties of a City-wide assessment district is an accurate estimate based
upon certain assumptions about how a future assessment district
would be structured. To the extent the assumptions are changed, the
estimated monthly costs would vary.

A yes vote for this measure will advise the City Council of support
for the formation of a City-wide assessment district for open space
protection and park acquisition and development which would raise
$1 million annually in accordance with the program guidelines recommended by the Open Space Financing Task Force.

A no vote for this measure will advise the City Council of opposition
to the formation of a City-wide assessment district for open space
protection and park acquisition and development which would raise
$1 million annually in accordance with the program guidelines recommended by the Open Space Financing Task Force.

<impartialend>