

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE PROPOSED
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX INCREASE MEASURE N

An existing Town of Loomis ordinance, first enacted in 1984, imposes a
transient occupancy tax (commonly referred to as a "hotel/motel tax")
on the patrons of hotels, motels, campgrounds and similar places of
temporary residence within the Town. This tax only applies to the
temporary occupancy of a room in such a facility, or the occupancy of a
space in a campground, for a period of thirty days or less.

The current rate of the Town hotel/motel tax is eight percent (8%) of the
rent paid by the patron to the operator of the hotel, motel or campground.
The tax is paid by the patron, collected by the operator of the hotel, motel,
campground, and delivered to the Town by that operator.

The Town Council has conditionally enacted an ordinance, Ordinance
No. 167, that increases the existing rate of the motel/hotel tax from eight
percent (8%) of the rent paid to ten percent (10%) of the rent paid. The
proposed tax increase will not apply to spaces in campgrounds and the
existing hotel/motel tax of eight percent (8%) of the rent paid will remain
in effect for such facilities.

Taxes generated from the existing hotel/motel tax are placed in the Town
of Loomis General Fund and used for general governmental purposes.
Accordingly, the existing tax is a “general tax.” The additional tax
generated from the tax increase proposed by Ordinance No. 167 would
also be a "general tax" of the Town that would be placed in the Town of
Loomis General Fund and used for genera! governmental purposes by
the Town.

Funds in the Town of Loomis General Fund are used by the Town for
various public purposes, including police protection, fire protection,
animal control enforcement, support of public parks, the funding of public
works projects and the support of the general governmental activities of
the Town.

Ordinance No. 167 was approved by the unanimous vote of the five
members of the Town Council, but is subject to a condition required by
state law that the proposed tax increase will not become effective without
prior voter approval. If this ballot measure is not approved by a majority
of the Town electorate voting on this issue, the ordinance will not become
effective and the transient occupancy tax of the Town will remain at its
present rate of eight percent (8%) of the rent paid.

A "YES" VOTE ON THIS MEASURE APPROVES THE PROPOSED
TAX INCREASE.

A "NO” VOTE ON THIS MEASURE DISAPPROVES THE PROPOSED TAX INCREASE.


