<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION CC

The ballot proposition submitted to the voters seeks to validate and reenact the
City’s existing utility user tax that was adopted by the City Council on September
21, 1993.

The utility user tax is a tax on the use of telephone, electricity, cogenerated
electricity, natural gas, and water in the City. The tax is paid by the consumer as
part of the consumer’s utility bill.

The ballot proposition limits the amount of the tax to a maximum of 3%, which
is the current rate. The City Council can repeal, reduce or adjust the rate of the
tax from time to time, but can never increase the tax above the 3% cap without
additional voter approval.

The proposition provides that commencing in 1998, and annually thereafter, the
City Manager shall submit an analysis of the revenues derived from the tax for
consideration by the City Council in connection with the preparation of the City’s
* budget for the following fiscal year. Based on that analysis, the City Council must
determine for any given year whether to modify the rate of the tax, not to exceed
3%. The City Council also may determine that collection of the tax is unnecessary.
If the City Council fails to conduct the annual review of the tax during a particular
year, the City shall not collect the tax until the review is conducted.

The City’s utility user tax is a general tax, and the revenues from the tax are placed
in the City’s general fund. General taxes are taxes that are not limited to a specific
purpose and are used for general city functions, such as law enforcement, street
maintenance, and parks and recreation services.

The ballot proposition is proposed in response to a recent California Supreme
Court decision. When the City Council adopted the utility user tax in 1993, courts
had ruled that general taxes could be adopted by a city council without additional
voter approval. The California Supreme Court recently overturned those earlier
decisions, holding that general taxes require voter approval.

The City Council has proposed this ballot proposition to allow the voters the
opportunity to validate and approve the City’s existing utility user tax. The tax
currently generates revenues of approximately $1,500,000 per year for the City.
The proposition requires approval by a majority of the voters voting at the
election.

A “yes” vote on the proposition ratifies the past collection of the utility user tax
and authorizes the continued collection of the tax. A “no” vote will result in the
tax no longer being collected and possible liability to the City to refund sums
previously collected under the existing utility user tax.

<impartialend>