<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE AA

LEGAL

A "yes" vote on Measure "AA" is a vote to continue the existing 6% Utility Tax. Because state law does not provide for elections on
existing taxes. “AA" is a new ordinance that would repeal and replace the existing Tax. it makes minor changes to clarify procedures. It
also includes cellular phones and wireless pay television to treat them more equally with telephones and cable television. It fixes the
maximum tax rate at 6%. A rate above 6% would require approval by the voters.

A "no" vote is a vote against continuing the Utility Tax. Under City Council resolutions, the Utility Tax will end December 31,1996,

unless "AA" passes or the tax is ruled legal.

Measure "AA" requires a simple majority vote to pass.

FISCAL

If Measure “AA" passes, revenue would increase by about $170,000 by including cellular phone and wireless pay TV.

If the Utility Tax ends, the City’s General Fund would lose approximately $7.1 Million in annual revenue. The Utility Tax is the City’s largest
revenue source. Under state law, the City may not use cuts outside of the General Fund to offset the lost Utility Tax.

Eliminating the Tax would cause substantial cuts in City services to the public. The City Council has adopted a Plan to account for the
losses of the Utility ($7.1 Million) and Business License ($400,000) taxes and for the pre-existing deficit ($1 Million).

Partial Summary of the Adopted Plan:

Police - Cut $3,028,626. Cut 46.4 positions (28 sworn). Reduce office hours for the public. Reduce patrol staffing. Eliminate bicycle
team. Reduce response to minor crimes. Reduce traffic and special enforcement teams. Reduce Neighborhood Watch and anti-graffiti.

Fire- Gut $1,714,002. Cut 21 positions (all sworn). Close Surmymead fire station and eliminate its 25 volunteer firefighters. Increase
average response time by 1 to 3 minutes.

Public Works - Cut $1,470,819. Cut 31 positions. Eliminate school crossing guards, tree trimming, sidewalk maintenance, and pest
control. Reduce street maintenance, graffiti removal and services to development projects.

Community and Economic Development-Cut $891,005. Cut 17 positions. Eliminate business attraction and retention. Eliminate
support to advisory boards. Reduce permit, inspection, and code enforcement services.

Administration City Attorney-Cut $576,510. Cut 13 positions. Reduce animal services and shelter hours. Reduce personnel and

volunteer services.

Parks - Cut $227,831 (General Fund subsidy). Cut 4 positions. Reduce park maintenance, senior center hours and some youth
events.

Finance - Cut $195,000. Cut 3.7 positions. Reduce accounting supervision and purchasing services. Reduce computer support to
maintenance only.

City Clerk/City Council - Cut $112,920. Cut 2 positions. Eliminate verbatim minutes. Reduce records management, and council
secretarial support.

Cross-department Impacts - Cut $139,088 in allocated fixed costs. Reduce or eliminate public information services and research,
analysis and long range planning capability. Reduce training and public education.

The Plan cuts approximately 33% of public safety and 69% of non-public safety general fund positions. The Council can change the Plan,
but alternatives are limited by state and federal law and contract obligations.

<impartialend>