IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE AA

This Measure requests voter approval of a city ordinance to continue
a transient occupancy tax ("TOT, or bed tax") on the renting of hotel
and motel rooms in the amount of a two (2) percent (2%) increase,
which was adopted by the City Council in 1991-1992. This is the tax
levied on a traveler’s overnight stay at hotels and motels within the
City of Garden Grove.

In 1991 and 1992, the City Council increased the transient occupancy
tax from 8% to 10%. The Council adopted an ordinance in 1991 and
1992 increasing this tax by 1% each year, respectively.

The City Council has chosen to place this two percent (2%) "bed
tax" increase before the voters at this time because of a recent California Supreme Court decision in the case of Santa Clara County
Transportation Authority v. Guarding.

In the Guarding case, the California Supreme Court ruled Proposition
62 to be constitutionally valid. Proposition 62 was adopted by California voters as a statewide initiative in 1986. It provided, in part,
that the adoption of any new or increased general tax by local government first requires voter approval by a simple majority vote. Between 1986 and 1995, several California state appellate courts had
ruled Proposition 62 to be unconstitutional, (e.g., City of Woodlake
v. Logan, 230 Cal. App. 3d 1058) In good faith reliance on these
appellate decisions, many cities and counties, the City of Garden
Grove among them, adopted general tax increases throughout California without first submitting the tax to the voters.

As of this writing, the Supreme Court opinion has not been made
final by the court. Assuming the Guarding decision remains unchanged, the decision appears to have the clear impact of prohibiting
the enactment of a new or increased tax without a vote of the people.
It is not clear whether the decision operates retroactively to invalidate
tax increases which were instituted prior to this decision. The City
Council, in anticipating a possible retroactive application to this bed
tax, has chosen to place the continuance of the two percent (2%)
increase on the. ballot for voter approval. If a simple majority of the
voters approve this ordinance, it then would be returned to the City
Council for final action.
