<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF BENICIA
MEASURE A

The purpose of Measure A Is to obtain voter approval of the continued collection of the 4 percent Utility Users Excise tax established by Ordinance No. 89-6 N.S., enacted by the Benicia City Council in 1989.

In 19B6 California voters enacted Proposition 62. This measure added state statutes
that, among other things, required local governments to obtain a majority vote approval of the imposition of any general tax. Many legal experts opined that this voter approval requirement violated a provision of the California Constitution. In 1991, the California
Court of Appeal published a decision in the case entitled City of Woodlake v. Logan in
which it concluded that the voter approval requirement of Proposition 62 was unconstitutional.

The City Council of the City of Benicia adopted an ordinance imposing a Utility Users’
Excise tax in 1989. This ordinance imposed a 4 percent tax on the use of electricity, gas,
cable television, and telephone services. This ordinance was not submitted to
the voters for approval.

In September 1395. the California Supreme Court overruled the Woodlake decision, and
conducted that the Proposition 62 voter approval requirement did not violate the California
Constitution. This opinion has raised a question about the legal ability of the city to
continue to impose the Utility Users tax.

The proposed measure, if passed, would authorize the continued imposition of the Utility
Users and pursuant to the ordinance adoptee in 1989. This ordinance establishes a 4
percenl tax imposed on gas, electric cable television, and Intrastate telephone services.
This ordinance established exemptions for certain residents, authorizes the City Council
to established other complete or partial exemptions, provides for penalties for delinquent
taxes, and authorizes legal actions to collect unpaid tares. The ordinance empowers the
Finance Director to adopt rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the tax, The ordinance also provides for refunds,
when appropriate. The ordinance provides that the proceeds of the tax are paid Into the
City’s general fund. The ordinance does not contain a date for its expiration.

<impartialend>