<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

BY THE EL CERRITO CITY ATTORNEY

State law authorizes cities which provide fire services to levy an assessment to pay all, or a portion, of those services. Through Measure H, the City seeks confirmation of Ordinance No. 96-8, establishing a city-wide fire assessment. The assessment proceeds will be dedicated exclusively for
fire suppression services.

The recommendation that El Cerrito establish a fire assessment was made by a citizen task
force. The City council charged the task force to evaluate City services and finances and issue
recommendations regarding the appropriate level of City services and the best method to finance these
services.

The task force concluded that present levels of fire protection must be maintained to protect public health and safety. Reductions in the level of service could significantly jeopardize life and
property.

According to Ordinance No. 96-8, the task force concluded that a dedicated source of
funding is required to assure adequate fire suppression services. The task force rejected exclusive
reliance on the general fund to finance fire services because of general fund instability caused by such
factors as past State actions which reduced local property tax to balance the Stale budget, and the loss
of sales tax caused by the Emporium store closing Through a dedicated funding source, fire services
could be made financially secure, even if future events threaten the general fund. The assessment
raises $ 1.26 million yearly, approximately 50% of the Fire Department budget.

Ordinance No. 96-8 adds Chapter 4.48 to the Municipal Code Section 4.48.010 states that
the ordinance is authorized by State law. Section 4.48.020 dedicates the assessment proceeds
exclusively for fire suppression services.

Sections 4.48,030 and 4.48.040 set out the manner of calculating the assessment, based on
the determination of benefit units for each type of property usage. Single family residences are
assigned one benefit unit. Benefit units for other uses arc based on usage, size, improvements and
response factors

Section 4.48.050 establishes a $125.00 yearly assessment for single family residences. The
assessments for other property uses are proportionate, based on the calculation of benefit units. The
assessment rate is automatically adjusted yearly based on the CPI. However, the assessment amount
may not be increased above the $125 base without compliance with State law. including provisions
which may require a popular vote.

Section 4.48.060 provides a 50 percent rebate for properties with fire sprinkler systems. 
Section 4.48.070 incorporates Slate law exemptions for lower income seniors, blind or disabled citizens. 
Section 4.48.080 authorizes the collection of the fire assessment with the property tax for
the fiscal year, the City will bill the assessment. 

Adoption of Ordinance No, 96-8 will constitute approval of the fire assessment in
compliance with the voter requirements of Proposition 218, the Right To Vote On taxes Act, should it be enacted. This will ensure continued reliance on a dedicated and secure source of funds for fire-suppression services. 

<impartialend>