


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

Effect of Measure on Existing Law

Approval of Measure P would confirm the assessments set by the City Council for Additional Library Services Assessment District No. 96-2. Disapproval of Measure P would result in cancellation of the assessments.

Operation of Measure

The City Council has independent authority to establish assessment districts. The City
Council has established the Additional Library Services Assessment District No. 96-2 to fund
additional public library services within the City of Sacramento, but determined to require
voter approval before any assessments are collected.

Measure P presents for voter approval an annual assessment for ten years. Assessments would be collected from the owners of all non-exempt properties within the City. The amount of the assessment for each land use type is set forth in the full text of the measure. For example, each developed single family residential parcel would be assessed $22 for the first year (1997-1998) of the District. Annually the assessment for each land use type will be
adjusted to reflect any increase in the consumer price index, not to exceed three percent
(3%) per year. The single family residence assessment would rise to not more than $28.70
in the tenth year.

The additional library services to be funded by the Assessment District are described in
the measure and Title 85 of the Sacramento City Code. They include additional open hours
for neighborhood, community and regional libraries, higher budgets for acquisition of library
books and materials, and funding for electronic information and technological improvements
at all City libraries. The proceeds, less expenses of collection, will be transferred to the
Sacramento Public Library Authority to be expended only for the purposes set forth in the
measure and ordinance. The services to be provided are “additional'' in that they are in
addition to those funded by the City’s current general fund allocation for library purposes.

The City's 1996-1997 $6.3 million general fund allocation to the Library will not be replaced
by the assessment proceeds. With one exception, the measure prohibits the City from
collecting the assessment in any year during which the City Council reduces its general fund
budget for library purposes to less than the $6.3 million allocation. The exception permits
the assessment to be collected if the general fund budget (excluding police and fire budgets
and expenditures offset by fees and other non-tax revenues) decreases from the 1996-1997
level and the City Council reduces library funding in proportion to other reductions.

Fiscal Impact

The assessment will raise approximately $3.0 million for additional library services during
1997-1998, with slight increases during each of the remaining nine years of the assessment.
