IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
HOLTVILLE UTILITY USERS TAX MEASURE C

Proposition 62 was an initiative on the November, 1986 ballot. As
adopted. Proposition 62 generally provided that local governments
could not impose a general tax until it had been submitted to and
approved by the majority of the voters. After the adoption of Proposition
62, California’s appellate courts determined that certain provisions
of Proposition 62 were unconstitutional, including the requirement of
voter approval for the imposition of general taxes. (City of Woodlake
v. Logan, (1991)). The California Supreme Court declined to review
the decision in City of Woodlake.

The City of Holtville, and numerous other cities, relied upon appellate
court decisions and the Supreme Court's refusal to review the matters
and enacted a Utility Users Tax. Holtville’s Utility Users Tax was
adopted by the City Council in 1991 (Ordinance No. 415), and amended
in 1993 (Ordinance No. 422) without presenting the question of the
tax to the City voters. The Utility Users Tax is a general tax devoted
for general governmental purposes including police, fire, emergency
services, administration, and parks and recreation. For the fiscal year
1995-1996, anticipated general fund revenue from the tax will approximate $303,700.00, almost 28% of the general fund budget.

In December, 1995, the California Supreme Court decision in the case
of Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority v. Guardino became
final. Guardino reverses prior court decisions on the constitutionality of
Proposition 62, and appears to require voter approval for the imposition
or increase of general taxes such as Holtville’s Utility Users Tax.

Holtville City Council has adopted resolutions to place the question of
the Utility Users Tax on the ballot. The issue before the voters is whether
or not to continue the five percent (5%)utility tax already in place. The
measure would continue, but not increase, the five percent tax on City
users of utilities such as defined telephone communication services, electrical energy, gas, cable television service, water, sewage, and garbage
collection and removal. The Tax rate cannot be increased without submitting the matter to the voters for approval.

A majority vote in favor of this measure will mean that the Holtville
Utility Users Tax will continue after August 1, 1996. A majority vote
against the measure will result in a repeal of the Utility Users Tax
and a loss of general fund revenue.

