<impartial>

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY


This proposed Ordinance would levy a City-wide assessment on all property
owners in the City for 30 years to provide increased funding for the acquisition and
improvement of parks, recreation, and community facilities.

The proposed Ordinance would provide approximately $25 million per year for 30
years for the acquisition and improvement of parks, recreation, and community
facilities. Of the total, 82% of funds would be spent on acquisitions and capital
improvements, 3% would be spent on administration, and 15% would be spent on
maintenance of completed capital improvements. The capital program totals
$442.5 million in 1996 dollars.

The assessment amount for each property owner is based on parcel size, number
of stories or units, and the amount of economic, environmental and recreational
benefit that a particular land use derives from increased park and recreation
facilities. A homeowner on one-seventh of an acre would be assessed $18.45 per
year for 30 years, while a three-story office building on half an acre would be
assessed $161.48 per year for 30 years.

Funds designated for acquisitions and capital improvements would be spent on
identified projects in the following categories: regional parks, neighborhood park
facilities, competitive grants, child recreation facilities, and athletic fields/ outdoor
development. Funds for competitive grants would be available for regional
recreation/ educational facilities, neighborhood at-risk youth recreation facilities,
youth schools/ recreation projects, aquatics upgrades, athletic fields, lighting at
parks, urban greening, and acquisition of parks and natural lands. Funds for
competitive grants would be allocated equitably City-wide through an open and
competitive process for nonprofit organizations, governmental entities, and City
departments to do projects within the boundaries of the City.

The assessment would be administered by an entity to be designated by the City
Council by ordinance. The City Council would also set up Volunteer Neighborhood
Oversight Committees to serve as advisors to the City for setting priorities for when
projects will be done, advise on the design of projects, and prepare annual reports
on the status of projects.

<impartialend>