<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

To meet the extraordinary needs of fire protection in Poway, a fire protection fee was
established by the Poway Municipal Water District before the City was incorporated. In 1982, the
City Council amended the fee so that it was charged to all properties in Poway according to the
use of the property. The amount of the fee charged each year has not changed since that date.

In November 1996, the voters approved Proposition 218. It requires that the fire fee be approved
by the voters as an assessment or a special tax. The City Council proposes this ballot measure
for the voters to approve the old fire protection fee as a special tax.

The amount of the tax will be the same as the old fee. There is no increase now, and any future
increase will require two-thirds approval by the voters. The cost is as follows:

•	$31.20 per year for the typical homeowner

•	$6.24 per acre per year for vacant property

•	$12.48 per acre per year for irrigated farmland

•	$62.40 per 1000 gallons per minute required fire flow for commercial, industrial, and
institutional buildings, per year

These costs are subject to maximums.

The proceeds of the tax will be deposited into a separate fund and may only be used for fire
protection purposes. Failure to approve the tax will result in a reduction of approximately $525,000
per year used for firefighting purposes. Loss of this revenue may adversely affect the firefighting
capabilities of the City.

If this measure is approved, the amount of the tax will not increase a property owner’s tax bill
from last year. If this measure is not approved, the total property tax bill for each property owner
will be reduced by the amount stated above.

This proposition will require approval by two-thirds of those voting.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to keep the existing fire protection fee as a tax, without increasing the
amount. A “No” vote is a vote to eliminate this fire protection revenue source.

<impartialend>