<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

This measure, if adopted, would allow for the adoption of a
temporary special police services tax on all property owners in the
City of East Palo Alto and would continue a level of funding for
police services and public safety existing in fiscal year 1996-97,
This measure would become effective for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 1997 and would continue for not more than three fiscal years.

As a temporary special tax for police services and public safety, the
funds by law could only be used for the purposes listed in the
Ordinance, the full text of which is available in the City Clerk’s
office. The Ordinance provides that tax funds would be used for:

•	expanded drug enforcement

•	increased police response time

•	drug, gang, and truancy prevention

•	hiring more police

•	increased neighborhood policing

•	equipment, training, facilities

•	investigations, prevention, technical assistance

•	police officer salaries, administration, annual audit

Low-income senior citizens and low-income handicapped persons
are eligible for exemption from the payment of the special tax.

This measure provides a flat annual rate for different categories of
properties. Single-family property owners would pay $150; commercial. agricultural, institutional and industrial properties would
pay 51,000; multi-family (apartment) properties would pay $60 per
unit, but not less than $180: and vacant (undeveloped) properties
would pay $100. The special tax would be added to the annual property tax bill.

Expenditures of tax funds must be audited every year by an independent auditor and the City Council is required to hold a public
hearing on the audit findings. Also, the audit must be reviewed by a
citizens oversight committee, an advisory body, to assure expenditures are consistent with the purposes set forth in the Ordinance.

This measure must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the eligible
voters voting on the measure at the July 22, 1997 special election.

<impartialend>