<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

Since 1983, emergency medical services have been provided in Dublin by the
county-wide Emergency Medical Services District and the local fire department.

Emergency medical services consist of “basic life support,” which emergency medical technicians (EMT’s) can perform and “advanced life support”
which only paramedics can perform. EMT’s can assist with the patient’s airway,
breathing and circulation. Paramedics can provide cardiac monitoring, administer IV fluids and give medications.

The Emergency Medical Services District has imposed an assessment on
property owners county-wide which funds three trauma centers and emergency
medical dispatch and subsidizes the cost of paramedic/ambulance service. The
1996-97 assessment was $21.14 per single-family parcel.

The Emergency Medical Services District has imposed a supplemental
assessment in Dublin to help the City fund its local costs of providing emergency medical services. These include training firefighters as EMT’s. The 1996-
97 supplemental assessment in Dublin was $3.28.

One way to conform to Proposition 218 (The Right to Vote on Taxes Act)
which was approved at the November 1996 election, is to convert the county-
wide assessment and the supplemental assessment to special taxes, subject to
voter approval.

Measure C is a county-wide measure which, if approved, would impose a
special tax to pay for the continuation of the three trauma centers, emergency
medical dispatch and the subsidy for ambulance service.

Measure E is a City measure which is separate from Measure C. Measure E
would approve a City-wide special tax in Dublin to pay for on-going costs of
providing emergency medical services, including two firefighters trained as
paramedics on duty 24 hours a day.

The special tax would be an excise tax in the amount of $10 per “benefit
unit.” Occupants of single family residences would pay $10 per year, occupants
of multi-family units would pay $6 per year and commercial, office and indus-
trial users would pay between $20 to $70 a year depending on the number of
[ “benefit units” for the type of use. The tax would be on the occupant of the
| home or building and the owner would be required to collect it. The City could
collect the tax on property tax bills.

The special tax which would be imposed if Measure E passes could only be
used for emergency medical services. The amount of the tax will not increase
over time unless approved by the voters.

To comply with Proposition 218, the City Council enacted an Ordinance
6-97 which sets forth the type of tax, amount of the tax, exemptions, refunds, use
of the proceeds and other related matters. A copy of the ordinance is printed in
the sample ballot.

As required by Proposition 218, the tax will not become effective unless Measure E is approved by two-thirds of those voting at the election.

<impartialend>