<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF THE SPECIAL, PROPERTY TAX MEASURE H

Pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, the City Council of the City of
Richmond has called an election to consider the levy of a special property tax within Community
Facilities District No. 1, whose boundaries are coterminous with the boundaries of the City of
Richmond.

This measure would authorize the levy of a special property tax to finance the seismic retrofitting
City Hall, the Hall of justice, the Richmond Plunge and certain fire stations to current earthquake
safety standards. This measure also includes funding for gender modifications to certain lire stations,
for the construction and installation of an emergency/911 center, and for a City-wide public safety
communication system.

A portion of the special property tax would fund annual pay-as-you-go public safety equipment,
including fire vehicles, police vehicles and 911/emergency dispatch equipment, all such equipment
having useful lives of at least five years. A bond issue is authorized in a total mount not to exceed $24 million, which amount would be repaid from the special property tax over a term of not more than
thirty years.

The special property tax would be levied on a square foot basis ranging as follows: (1) for single
family residential parcels, from $24 to $65 annually; (2) for condominium/townhouse parcels, from
$20 to $47 annually; (3) for duplex parcels, from $22 to $100 annually; (4) for triplex parcels, from
$46 to $156 annually; (5) for fourplex parcels, from $47 to $208 annually; and (6) for multi-family
residential parcels, from $154 to $860 annually. For commercial parcels, the special property tax would
range from $50 to $1,371 annually For industrial parcels, the special tax would be levied on an
acreage basis ranging from $25 to $31,801 annually for developed parcels and from $6 to $8,625 for
undeveloped parcels. The special property tax on parcel owners will not increase or be adjusted for
inflation. Parcel owners wilt not be entitled to prepay the special property tax.

The measure would also set an annual appropriations limit (i.e. the maximum amount the District

may expend in any given year) of $3,389,690. If in any year the amount collected exceeds the amount
necessary to pay the annual costs, then the surplus will be applied as a proportional credit against the
amount of the special property' tax payable by parcel owners in the next year.

A “Yes” vote is for authorizing the issuance of bonds, the establishment of the appropriations
limit and the levy of the special property tax.

A “No” vote is against authorizing the issuance of bonds, the establishment of the appropriations
limit and the levy of the special property tax.

<impartialend>