<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Measure K is intended to prevent the anticipated decline in utility tax revenues
received by the City of Sunnyvale from large commercial and agricultural
businesses which is expected to occur as a result of state government
deregulation of the electric utility industry. Large commercial businesses are
defined by the state as those with a maximum peak demand equal to or greater
than 20 kilowatts.

Since 1975 the City's electric utility tax rate on all electric utility users
has been 2%. If Measure K is approved by the voters, and if electric rates for
large commercial and agricultural businesses are reduced by approximately 30% as
is supposed to occur by 2002, then the City Council will be authorized to hold
one or more public hearings to consider raising the electric utility tax rate on
these types of users from the current 2% to 3%. The tax rate could not be
increased without the City Council holding at least one public hearing and
adopting an ordinance by at least four affirmative votes. Measure K does not
require the Council to increase the tax rate, nor does it require an increase to
the full 3%. Measure K simply authorizes the City Council to consider and
possibly adopt such a tax rate increase.

With deregulation of electric rates, an increase in the tax rate will not
result in an overall increase to any utility bill. For example, a business that
now uses $100 worth of electricity pays $2 in utility users tax, for a total
bill of $102 If there is both deregulation in electric rates and an increase in
the tax rate, that same business would be expected to pay $70 for electricity
and $2.10 in taxes, for a total bill of $72.10.

The money generated by the utility users tax goes into the City's general fund.
General fund money pays for a wide variety of basic City services, including
public safety, parks, libraries and road maintenance. Measure K is a companion
measure to Measure L, but Measure K should be considered and acted upon
separately from Measure L since neither measure is dependent upon the other.

A "yes" vote on Measure K will authorize the City Council to consider and adopt

an increase from 2% up to 3% in the utility users tax on large commercial and
agricultural businesses.

A "no" vote on Measure K will preclude the City Council from considering or
adopting any increase in utility users tax on large commercial and agricultural
businesses.

<impartialend>