<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

In 1989, the Orange Cove City Council adopted a utility users’ tax. Money collected from this tax currently
provides approximately 24% of the City’s general fund. The general fund is used, among other things, to
pay for basic services such as law enforcement and street repair.

In 1997, a law suit was filed which challenges the tax on a number of grounds, including its validity under
state law. A number of other courts ruling on similar cases which challenged taxes on similar grounds have
barred these actions. However, many questions of law raised by these cases (and the case against Orange
Cove's tax) will not be finally resolved until they are ruled upon by the higher courts. Therefore, certainty
regarding the present tax cannot be expected to be achieved through the legal process for many months,
and possibly years. This ballot measure is an effort to resolve, at least some of these issues, at the ballot
box now, instead of waiting for the courts to resolve them in the future.

This ballot measure, if adopted, would repeal the existing tax and adopt a new tax, at the same rate pursuant
to an ordinance containing almost the same terms as the present taxing ordinance. Like the present tax, the
tax under the proposed ordinance would be collected by the utility company as a part of a customer’s bill
for telephone calls made within California, electrical energy services and for natural gas delivered through
mains or pipes (rather than by tank or bottle). The tax money would then be forwarded from the utility
company to the City of Orange Cove. Both the existing tax and the proposed tax are general taxes which
can be used for any proper purpose by the City Council.

If this measure passes, the tax could not be increased above the current seven percent rate and the types
of utilities to which it applied could not be increased without another election. However, the City Council
could adopt and modify the technical rules regarding the collection of this money by the utility companies
involved, their payment of these monies to the City and other, similar, procedural matters.

This measure changes some technical provisions of the existing ordinance. It clarifies the requirements
that: (1 (anyone claiming a refund from the City must first file a claim with the City within six months of the
date that they claim they overpaid the tax, (2)the tax applies only to telephone calls which either originated
in the City or terminated in the City and (3)the penalty which applies for nonpayment or delinquent payment
of the tax.

Voter approval of this measure will reduce or eliminate uncertainty regarding the continued collection of a
utility users tax and may render moot the legal challenge to ongoing collection of these revenues. If this
measure does not pass, the current ordinance would remain in effect unless the City or the court takes
further action.

<impartialend>