

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

This Measure asks whether the voters of the City of Irwindale desire
to approve a City Charter amendment which (1) establishes the
authority of the City to adopt regulations and impose fees upon mining
and processing operations in order to mitigate the negative
environmental impacts of such operations, and (2) declares the
authority of the City to tax mining operations, admission to
entertainment events, and other businesses. Your "Yes" vote means
that you desire the Charter amendment to become effective, while a
"No" vote indicates that you do not desire the Charter amendment to
become effective.

Charter cities have broad authority to enact laws concerning municipal
affairs, even when they conflict with State laws.

The City has recently been in litigation over the right of a mining
operator to excavate deeper. The City lost the litigation and was held
to owe the operator over $3 Million. There is currently no specific
provision in the Charter concerning the regulation of mining or
mitigation of mining impacts, or the imposition of mining or admission
taxes.

The City has been told that certain persons may argue that the City's
mining and admissions taxes are illegal. This measure establishes a
more secure legal basis for these taxes by specifically providing for
them in the Charter. The City first adopted a mining tax in 1975, and
at the current rate of approximately 16 cents per ton, the City receives
approximately $850,000 per year. Since 1977, the City has taxed
admissions to entertainment and amusements at a rate of 15 to 25
cents per admission, which brings under $10,000 per year. City
business license taxes have been effective since 1957 and generate
from $450,000 to $550,000 per year.

The Charter amendment amends present Charter section 903 to state
that the City may levy mining, excavation, and processing taxes,
admission taxes on fees charged for events such as swap meets,
concerts, and racing, and business taxes.

The Charter amendment also adds an Article to the Charter to
provide the City with the complete authority to establish regulations
relating to the mitigation of negative environmental impacts imposed
upon the City by mining and processing operations, and to collect
mitigation fees to reimburse the City for costs arising from such
operations. Any fees collected by the City would be spent to mitigate
the negative environmental impacts caused by mining and processing
operations on City residents, properties, businesses and visitors, and to fund mine closure studies and activities. This would include
protection of public health, safety, and property endangered by mining
practices, and restoration of land and water resources.

The financial effect of this measure is unknown. The measure would
not immediately cause any increase in taxation or enact any regulations
or fees on mining. It would establish a legal basis for the existing
measures, and permit enactment of additional measures in the future.
The ultimate financial effect will depend on how the legal authority is
exercised by the City Council.

