<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Z

In 1979 the San Dimas City Council established Lighting and Landscape
Maintenance Assessment District No. 1 (“District”) which applies to all properties
in the City of San Dimas. The assessment was collected on the real property tax
bill which property owners pay in December and April of each year. The
assessments collected paid the cost of maintaining the landscape medians,
parkways, parkway trees, parks and recreational trails in the City. Since 1979 the
amount of the District assessment has been set by the City Council after
conducting a public hearing, usually in June of each year. Separate assessments	are set for single family, multifamily and other property in the City.	

At the November 5, 1996 General Election, Proposition No. 218, the Right To 
Vote On Taxes Act, was approved. This changed the existing laws governing the
procedural and approval process and in some cases the ability of the City to levy 
various assessments including those for the District. Proposition 218 requires that
before the City can charge properties in the City to pay for the costs of maintaining the landscaped medians, parkways, parkway trees, parks and recreational trails,
the voters must first approve that charge.

At the March 4,1997 Municipal Election, the City Council placed a special parcel
tax measure on the ballot to replace the District assessments. If the measure had
passed, most property owners would have paid the amount they paid the previous
year. That amount is set forth on the table below in Column A. The Measure,
however, received 63.1% yes votes, short of the 2/3rds requirement and failed to
pass. After the March 1997 Election, a citizen committee requested the City
Council to place a similar measure on the November 1997 ballot.

At its July 22, 1997 meeting, the City Council unanimously decided to submit to
the voters of the City an ordinance which would impose a special parcel tax on properties in the City. This special parcel tax, if approved, would be less than the amount levied under the District and the revenues would be used only to pay the
costs of improving and maintaining parkway trees and the landscaping in the
public parks and other public areas. If two-thirds (2/3) of the voters approve this
special parcel tax, then in 1998/99, property owners would pay the amounts shown
in Column B:

In future years, the City Council would set the amount of the tax only after
conducting a public hearing. However, in no event could the amount of the special
parcel tax be increased more than increases in the Consumer Price Index.

<impartialend>