<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION A


Ballot Proposition A will extend the existing 1995 City of Hawthorne Utility User
Tax Rate indefinitely. The City now collects approximately 7.8 Million in annual
revenues from the utility user tax.

Proposition A is a general tax, and revenues collected under Proposition A will
be used to pay for the cost of general city operations, including police protection,
fire/paramedics services, building inspections, code enforcement, park
maintenance and other public services.

In December, 1995, the California Supreme Court held for the first time that
general taxes require voter approval. In addition, at the November 5, 1996
General Election, Proposition No. 218, the Right To Vote On Taxes Act, was
approved. The California Supreme Court decision, as well as this proposition,
changed the law governing the approval of general taxes, such as the Utility User
Tax.

If Proposition A is approved by a majority vote, the existing utility user tax on
electricity, gas and telephone/telecommunications and other utility services will
continue to be applied to utility bills. The tax is paid by the consumer as part of
the utility bill and the tax will be collected by the utility companies from each
customer and then paid to the City. Low income senior citizens are exempted.

If this measure is ratified and approved by the voters, the City may not increase
the tax rate without approval of the voters.

If Proposition A is not approved, the amount collected by the Utility User Tax
will decrease from $7.8 Million to $3.9 Million during this fiscal year. This loss
equals about 17% of the annual general tax revenue fund. Similar losses will occur
in future years. The financial effect on the City of losing this revenue will be
severe. At the time of this writing, the city council is considering the adoption of
a contingency Budget Plan, describing reductions that will be necessary if the
existing utility user tax and the business license tax are not extended, including
the following reductions.

Police Department—cut 35 full-time police officers, 6 full-time civilian
employees and 35 part-time positions; Department of Recreation and
Community Services—cut 8 full-time employees and 94 part-time positions; and
other City Departments—cut 10 full-time employees and 9 part-time positions.

<impartialend>