<impartial>

IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS	OF MEASURE	"HH”

Measure “HH" is an ADVISORY MEASURE submitted to the voters
of the City of Palm Springs concerning a “Utility User's Tax"). As an advisory measure, the City Council of the City of Palm Springs is not bound by the results of the election. Your "yes" vote on this Measure "HH” means that you would like the City Council to continue collection of the Tax for the next two years, beginning on November 4, 1997, at the rate of 5% or less. Your "no" vote means that you would not like the City Council to continue collection of the tax.

Since August 4, 1993, the City Council has collected a Utility User's
Tax on telephone, electric, gas, and co-generated electric service at the
I rate of 5% of the charges made for each of those services. The Tax is
payable by the resident(s) using the services and is collected through the
utility company.

The ordinance by which the City Council adopted and set the Tax
has no "sunset clause.” In an advisory election on June 7,1994. the
voters voted 4,618 to 3,662 to continue the Utility User's Tax for 3 years.
Approval of this advisory Measure "HH" would show voter support for
continuing the Tax with the intent that there be another advisory vote
after 2 years. However, failure of this advisory Measure "HH" does not
require the City Council to discontinue the Tax.

The existing ordinance contains limitations on what and who it
applies to. No changes are proposed, and current exemptions would be
maintained.

As this Measure "HH" does not fix a specific tax rate, the fiscal
impact is difficult to determine. The City Finance Department has estimated that with the above exemptions, the revenues from the Tax will
generate approximately $880,000 per 1% of the Tax during each fiscal
year. Therefore, the Tax would generate $4,400,000 in each fiscal year.

This is a general tax, and the money would be held in the City's
general fund for operational expenses. If the taxes were designated tor
a specific purpose, then, under Proposition 13, they could become
special taxes and would require a two-thirds vote of the electorate.
Proposition 62 makes general taxes subject to a majority vote of the
electorate. Although the California Supreme Court has now held Proposition 62 to be constitutional, the City's Utility User's Tax predates this
ruling. Litigation is now pending on the retroactivity of the Supreme Court
ruling, and the law is unsettled.

Proposition 218, adopted in November 1996, is also being litigated.
Proposition 218 does not apply to taxes in effect prior to January 1,1995,
as was the City’s Utility User's Tax. Accordingly, the City Council is free
to continue the Tax free from the restrictions of Proposition 218, so long
as it does not increase the Tax. Therefore, the Council has determined
to submit this Measure "HH" as an advisory vote, and any change in the
Tax would occur only if enacted by the City Council.

<impartialend>