<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

PARAMEDIC SERVICES ACT OF 1997

If adopted, this measure would create a special tax to fund Paramedic
Services within the City of Oakland. The proposed tax would fund services not
currently offered by the City of Oakland.

Proposition 218, enacted by the voters of the State of California on
November 5, 1996, created two new articles of the State Constitution, Articles
XIIIC and XIIID. Article XIIIC governs general and special taxes. As this measure would create a special tax, it must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the
voters voting on the measure at the special election.

The purpose of the proposed special tax is to raise revenue necessary to
expand and enhance emergency medical services in the City of Oakland, particularly the provision of paramedic services offered by the Fire Department. As
a special tax, the funds generated by the imposition of the proposed measure
would be limited to the purpose stated in the measure, and could not be diverted to any other purpose if a surplus were generated. If the City of Oakland is,
for any reason, unable to provide the services anticipated, or if this measure
fails to generate sufficient revenues to support the services, the City may issue
refunds or credits for any taxes collected and not expended for the stated purposes. This proposed measure is not an ad valorem tax on real property, nor a
transaction tax, nor sales tax on the sale of real property.

This measure would impose a tax rate of $7.18 on each parcel with a single
family residence. For parcels with other uses, the tax rate is multiplied as follows:

Small Multiple Residential (2-4 units)	$14.36
Large Multiple Residential (5 or more)	$35.90
Commercial	$14.36
Industrial	$28.72
Rural	$ 7.18
Institutional	$ 7.18

The proposed measure will apply to all parcels except those exempted by
state or federal law.

Special taxes may be increased within limits approved by the voters. The
proposed measure includes a provision that allows the City Council to increase
the tax rate up to the change in the Consumer Price Index, but not more than
five percent (5%) per year. 1997 is the index year for any subsequent increase.
The City may reduce the amount of the tax in any year if the City has sufficient
funds to adopt a balanced budget while reducing the amount collected pursuant
to this measure.

The measure creates a collection and enforcement structure. The Director of
Finance is charged with collection and enforcement of the special tax, although
in most cases the tax will be collected by the County Assessor in conjunction
with property taxes. An appeals process is provided, as well as the imposition
of penalties and interest on uncollected taxes. Failure to pay the special tax
would be a misdemeanor.

<impartialend>