

City Attorney’s Impartial Ballot Analysis

Seecon Financial & Construction Company, Inc. (“Seccon”) has applied to the City for approval
to construct a 56,750 square foot convention center/casino and related development (“Project”) at the
Village “A” portion of Seccon’s previously approved San Marco subdivision. The Project would be
located on the south side of State Highway 4 just east of the Bay Point interchange at the northeast
corner of the anticipated extension of West Leland Road and Willow Pass Road in Pittsburg (the
“Site”). The Project includes a 68 table cardroom, along with convention, restaurant and related
facilities.

On January 13, 1997, the City Council certified the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact
Report for the Project. On January 21, 1997, the Council placed the measure on the ballot.

If approved by a majority of Pittsburg voters. Measure “A” would amend Municipal Code
Chapter 5.24 to:

a.	require voter approval for the issuance of any Cardroom License for a site specific location
which location must appear on the ballot;

b.	authorize the issuance of a Cardroom License for the Project at the Site pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 5.24 and the amendments thereto contained in Measure “A" in effect on the
effective date of the Measure (the license requires a separate application and approval by the City
Council);

c.	approve a tax rate structure for new Cardroom Licenses that requires the licensee to pay the
city (1) a monthly tax on gaming revenue of ten percent of the total monthly gross revenue of the $0
to $1,000,000; (2) a monthly tax of 12.5% of the total monthly gross revenue of the next $1,000,001
to $2,000,000; (3) a monthly tax of 15.0% for revenues over $2,000,000 and an application fee of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) for a Cardroom License; and (iv) a minimum monthly payment of at least
one hundred thousand dollars by the licensee following the first twelve months of operation regardless
of the licensee’s total monthly gross revenue. The licensee would be required to pay the City a
minimum annual tax of $1,200,000 regardless of revenues; and

d.	authorize the Council to adopt additional rules for the regulation of cardrooms.

Measure “A" would amend the Pittsburg General Plan land use map to change the land use classification for the Site from Residential Medium Density to Community Commercial to accommodate the Project. It would amend the Planned Development: Plan for the San Marco subdivision to allow the Project on the Site, with conditions of approval which are set forth in the Measure. 

Measure “A” would also amend the development agreement between the City and Seecon (“Amendment”) authorizing project construction on the Site and granting Seecon vested rights to proceed with the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Amendment. 