<impartial>

CITY OF MOORPARK
CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

MEASURE "P"

If enacted, Measure P would adopt an ordinance that replaces the
existing parks maintenance benefit assessment with a special tax. The
Ordinance provides that the special tax may be levied annually for a period
of ten years and that the revenues can be used only for park maintenance
purposes. To be adopted, the ordinance must be approved by 2/3 of the
voters voting at the special election.

On November 5,1996, the voters of California approved Proposition
218, the "Right to Vote on Taxes Act". Under Proposition 218, the City may
not be able to continue to impose the parks maintenance benefit
assessment. However, Proposition 218 does authorize a special tax to pay
for parks maintenance, if the special tax is approved by 2/3 of the voters
voting on the matter.

Under the Ordinance, the tax rates have been calculated in the same
way as the current parks maintenance benefit assessment rates are
calculated. The maximum tax rates are $68.50 per single family residence;
$51.38 per mobile home or multi-family residence; $99.76 per parcel used
for petroleum/gas or auto sales/repair; $199.51 per parcel used for
agriculture or a theater; $299.27 per parcel used for single story retail
store(s) or office(s), bank/saving and loan, industrial condo/co-op/PUD,
mineral processing, service station or restaurant/cocktail lounge; $399.04
per parcel used for warehousing; $598.55 per parcel used for multi-story
retail store(s) or office(s); $997.57 per parcel used for a neighborhood
shopping center; $1,197.10 per parcel used for light manufacturing; and
$2,992.73 per parcel used for a regional shopping center.

The Ordinance also contains a number of provisions governing the
special tax:

•	The tax could only be levied for ten years, commencing with fiscal
year 1998-1999 and ending with fiscal year 2008-2009.

•	During the ten year period, the tax would be levied annually by the
City Council. The levy could not exceed the maximum rates
established by the Ordinance, but the City Council could levy the
tax at rates that are lower than those set forth in the Ordinance.

•	The tax rates set forth in the Ordinance could not be increased and
the ten year limit on the tax could not extended, except by a 2/3
vote of the electorate.

•	The revenue received from the tax would be placed in a special
fund and..would have to be used exclusively for park maintenance
purposes.

•	The tax would be collected through the property tax bill in the same
manner as property taxes and the current parks maintenance
benefit assessment.

A “yes" vote on Measure P favors levying a special tax for park
maintenance purposes.

A “no" vote on Measure P measure opposes levying a special tax for
park maintenance purposes.

<impartialend>