

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J

The voters of Alameda County approved an advisory ballot measure in 1982
which approved creation of a service area called the Alameda County
Emergency Medical Services District. The purpose of the Emergency Medical
Services District is to provide funding for emergency medical services.

Emergency medical services consist of “basic life support,” which emergency medical technicians (EMT’s) can perform and “advanced life support”
which only paramedics can perform. EMT’s can assist with the patient’s airway,
breathing and circulation. Paramedics can provide cardiac monitoring and
defibrillation, administer intravenous fluids and give medications.

Since 1983 the Emergency Medical Services District has imposed an assessment on property owners county-wide which funds three trauma centers and
emergency medical dispatch and subsidizes the cost of paramedic/ambulance
service. The annual assessment is currently $21.14 per single-family parcel.

The City of San Leandro has authorized the Emergency Medical Services
District to impose a supplemental assessment in San Leandro to help the City
fund its local costs of providing emergency medical services. These' costs
include training firefighters as EMT’s and paramedics. The annual supplemental assessment in San Leandro is currently $9.90.

One way to conform to Proposition 218 (The Right to Vote on Taxes Act)
which was approved at the November 1996 election, is to convert the county-wide assessment and the supplemental assessment to special taxes, subject to
voter approval.

Measure C is a county-wide measure which, if approved, would impose a
special tax to pay for the continuation of the three trauma centers, emergency
medical dispatch and the subsidy for ambulance service.

Measure J is a City measure which is separate from Measure C. Measure J
would approve a city-wide special tax in San Leandro to pay for on-going costs
of providing emergency medical services, including firefighters trained as
EMT’s and paramedics. To maintain current funding of emergency medical services both Measure C and Measure J have to be approved by the voters.

The special tax would be an excise tax. Occupants of single family residences would pay $9.90 per year, occupants of multi-family units would pay
$9.90 per year and commercial, office and industrial users would pay between
$20 to $70 a year depending on the number of “benefit units” for the type of
use. The amount of the tax could increase only by the consumer price index
with the maximum increase being $5.10.

The special tax imposed if Measure J passes could only be used for emergency medical services.

To comply with Proposition 218, the City Council enacted an ordinance
which sets forth the type of tax, amount of the tax, exemptions, refunds, use of
the proceeds and other related matters. A copy of the ordinance is printed in the
sample ballot.

As required by Proposition 218, the tax will not become effective unless
Measure J is approved by two-thirds of those voting at the election.

