

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

BY CITY ATTORNEY
(Park Maintenance Special Tax)

Measure B asks the voters to approve or disapprove a special tax to pay for the continued
maintenance of public parks within the City of Carpinteria. If approved, the County Tax Collector
will levy the amount of $36.03 annually on each parcel within the City of Carpinteria which is
designated as residential by the Assessor's Use Code. The tax shall be collected by the County Tax
Collector on the real property tax bill. The tax is fixed in the annual amount of $36.03. No annual
adjustment, inflationary clause or index which adjusts the amount of the tax is included in the special
tax. Any fixture increases in the amount of the tax would require new approval by a two-thirds vote
of the voters in the City.

Formerly, the City maintained its public parks with funds collected from Right-of-Way
Improvement District No. 3. This assessment district, adopted by the City in 1985, provides funds
to maintain and repair curbs, gutters, sidewalks and public parks in the City. Under the Improvement District, each residential parcel within the City was assessed the amount of $36.03 annually
to pay the costs associated with maintenance and operation of the City's public parks.

On November 5, 1996, the voters of this State passed Proposition 218, entitled "The Right
to Vote on Taxes Act." Proposition 218 adds articles and to the California Constitution. Under Proposition 218, assessments on real property can be levied on a parcel only if that
parcel receives a special benefit from the improvement or sendee. Because the benefits of park
maintenance are enjoyed by the general public as well as by owners of individual parcels, under
Proposition 218 funds may no longer be collected for park maintenance from the Improvement
District. The continued collection of such funds must be authorized as a special tax which is
approved by a two-thirds vote.

Therefore, if the City is to continue to collect monies to pay for the maintenance and
operation of the public parks in the City of Carpinteria, two-thirds or more of the voters must vote
in favor of Measure B 97. If Measure B 97 is approved, $36.03 will be taxed annually on each
residential parcel in the City of Carpinteria. This amount is the same as was formerly collected for
park maintenance through Right-of-Way Improvement District No. 3. Approval of Measure B 97
therefore will not result in any increase in the affected property owner's tax or assessment liability.

The City will use the tax money only for maintenance of public parks. This could include
replacement and repair of equipment, provision of water, and the cost of maintenance contracts and administration. A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the special tax to pay for continued maintenance
of the City's public parks. A "No" vote is a vote to disapprove the special tax for park maintenance.

