

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

This special tax is to be used to provide the funding necessary for the fire
department paramedic program for the City of Union City. It cannot be used for
any other purpose. The special tax provides emergency medical services including, but not limited to, defibrillation of heart attack victims, administration of
essential drugs (i.e. nitroglycerin for heart attack and epinephrin for asthma sufferers) and other advanced first aid techniques as required.

The recent state-wide enactment of Proposition 218, “Right to Vote on Taxes
Act”, will result in the termination of the City’s supplemental emergency medical assessment which had previously paid for these paramedic services. The
amount of this special tax is identical to the amount of the City’s supplemental
emergency medical assessment of $10.88 which is currently being paid. This
measure, if adopted by two-thirds of the votes cast on June 3, 1997 will authorize a special tax on the privilege of using land in the City. The tax rate is based
upon the use to which any given parcel of land is put. Land which contains a 
single-family residence is deemed to receive one “benefit unit” and is subject to a
special tax of $10.88 per year. Other land uses are assigned different benefit units
and, therefore, differing multiples of $10.88 per year. For example, a heavy
industrial site receives seven benefit units and would be subject to a special tax
of $76.16 per year (7 x $10.88 = $76.16). The special tax contains a provision to
accommodate the increasing costs of providing the paramedic program to City
residents by permitting the special tax to increase on an annual basis by an
amount no greater than the Consumer Price Index (All-Urban Consumers, San
Francisco Bay Area). However, under no circumstances may this CPI adjustment
result in a tax exceeding the actual cost of providing paramedic service. Further,
the measure provides that the special tax may not be increased beyond $15.00
per benefit unit regardless of actual cost increases or CPI increases.

In summary, a single family residence will pay a special tax of $10.88 per year
(which may be increased depending upon the increased actual costs of service
limited both by the Consumer Price Index and an absolute maximum of $15 per
benefit unit). Other land uses pay varying multiples of $10.88 per benefit unit
depending upon their land use category.

This special tax may only be used to fund the paramedic program providing
such services as listed above. This special tax measure provides funds for separate and distinct emergency medical services than does the county special tax
measure also appearing on the June 3, 1997 ballot.