<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OF MEASURE F-97

Measure “F" is an ordinance proposed by the City Council of the
City of Pismo Beach which, if ratified by a two-thirds vote, would
impose a special tax on all water users and property owners throughout
the City. It is a “special tax" since the revenue collected may only
be used for a specific purpose. It would repeal and replace the Water
Availability Fee adopted by the City Council in October of 1996, and
the flat fee portion of the Lopez Charge, effective July 1, 1997.

The adoption of a "special tax" is necessitated by the passage of
Proposition 218. Proposition 218 amended the California Constitution
in a manner which called into question the continued legality of the
Water Availability Fee and the Lopez Charge. Measure "F" would
replace these fees and charges with a tax which is consistent with
Proposition 218.

Tax revenues could only be used to pay the fixed costs of the State
Water Project and the Lopez Water Project. "Fixed costs" are those
which must be paid whether or not there is any water delivered,
including the repayment of indebtedness and portions of the operation,
maintenance, replacement and administrative costs of the projects.
Revenue may also be used to establish a limited reserve fund and
pay the costs associated with its creation and administration. Any
surplus balance must be used to reduce the amount of tax for
subsequent years.

The tax would be levied on water users and property owners on a
per parcel basis, whether the parcel is developed or not, based on
anticipated water use. Use is estimated through assigning parcels
equivalent dwelling units ("EDU’s"). One EDU is based upon the
anticipated use of a single family residential unit. All other residential
properties are assigned EDU’s in proportion to anticipated water use
as compared to a single family residential unit. Commercial properties
are assigned EDU’s based upon square footage. A detailed "Engineer’s
Parcel/EDU Table" is available showing the number of EDU’s assigned
each parcel in the City. Parcels that have no anticipated water use
and the City of Pismo Beach are exempted from the tax. Other
governmental entities will be taxed for irrigation meters.

The election will establish a maximum tax rate of $125 per EDU
per year. The maximum rate may be adjusted by inflation annually,
but in no event more than 3% per year. The City Council shall set
the actual tax rate for each year, never exceeding the maximum rate.
The actual tax rate will be calculated to meet the limited revenue
needs allowed under the ordinance.

The tax may be adjusted if there is gross inequity based upon the
actual physical condition of property and/or City regulations. The tax
may be collected through any convenient method including posting
the tax to the assessment rolls of the County. The City Council may
only amend the procedural provisions of the ordinance and may never
extend or increase the tax. The ordinance may only be repealed by
a two-thirds vote of the electorate.

<impartialend>