<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

In November of 1996 the state electorate enacted Proposition 218
which requires local governments to obtain a majority vote approval
prior to the imposition of any general tax. In compliance with that
state proposition, the City Council of the City of Pacifica has placed
on the ballot Measure H which seeks voter approval of the collection
of a 6.5 percent Utility Services Users' Tax as set forth in Ordinance
No. 653-CS adopted by the City Council on April 14, 1997
("Ordinance”). The proposed tax as set forth in the Ordinance establishes a general tax of 6.5 percent on users of telephones, cellular
telephones, water, sanitary sewer, cable television services, wireless
pay television services, and refuse collection and recycling services.
The Ordinance also establishes exemptions for residents who are 65
and older and for those who qualify as low or very-low income
households as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development for San Mateo County. The Ordinance establishes an annual maximum tax liability of $500.00 for any business
service user. The Ordinance also provides for penalties for delinquent taxes and authorizes the payment of refunds when appropriate.
The Ordinance provides that the proceeds of the Utility Services
Users' Tax are to be paid into the City’s general fund to be utilized
for general governmental purposes. This Ordinance also contains a
sunset clause which provides for the automatic termination of the 6.5
percent Utility Services Users' Tax on December 31, 2000 unless a
similar Ordinance is approved by a majority of the voters at a general or special election to be held prior to that date.

Approval of this measure by a majority of the voters, would allow
Ordinance No. 653-CS to take effect immediately and authorize the
collection of a 6.5 percent Utility Services Users’ Tax. Failure to
achieve majority approval of this measure would prevent Ordinance
No. 653-CS from taking effect, thereby preventing the imposition
and collection of the Utility Services Users' Tax.

<impartialend>