<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF CITY OF LAKEPORT
MEASURE D

California law authorizes the City Council of a general law City to impose a special tax for fire protection
and prevention services. Such a special tax must be
levied on a parcel, class of improvement to property, or
use of property basis, or a combination thereof. Such
property must also have available to it the fire protection
services provided by the City, such taxes to be used for
obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining fire suppression equipment or apparatus, for paying the salaries
and benefits of firefighting personnel and for such other
necessary fire protection and prevention expenses of
the City, and for no other purpose. An ordinance imposing such a special tax must be approved by two-thirds of
the voters voting upon the measure within the City. This
is such a measure.

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon, will approve of the action of the
Lakeport City Council to impose a special tax, annually,
in the amount of one dollar and five cents ($1.05) per
unit of benefits on to the units of benefit table set
forth in the measure, such tax to be imposed on all
parcels within the City limits for the purpose of providing
fire protection and prevention services (salaries and
benefits of firefighting personnel, necessary fire protection and prevention services, medical aid, ambulance
service and hazardous materials). In March of each year
the initial $1.05 amount will be adjusted for inflation
using the report of the Bay Area Census, All Urban
Consumers Price Index.

This measure is authorized by and is in conformity
with the existing laws of the State of California.

A yes vote on this measure will approve the action
of the Lakeport City Council to impose a special tax on
all real property in the City for fire protection and prevention and related services. A no vote on this measure
will disapprove the action of the Lakeport City Council to
impose such a special tax.

<impartialend>