<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES RETENTION ACT OF 1997

If adopted, this measure would create a special tax to fund Emergency
Medical Dispatch Services within the City of Oakland. The proposed tax would
replace an existing assessment in the same dollar amount.

Proposition 218, enacted by the voters of the State of California on
November 5, 1996, created two new articles of the State Constitution, Articles
XIIIC and XIIID. Article XIIID governs assessments and “property-related”
fees and charges. Art. XIIID requires all assessments not meeting the specified
exemptions to be in compliance with the Article by July 1, 1997.

Alameda County previously imposed an assessment for emergency medical
services which included a supplemental assessment for the City of Oakland.
That assessment funded City and County activities in the provision of emergency medical services, including trauma centers. The County is submitting to
the voters a separate measure replacing the County funding. The City’s supple-
mental assessment was also invalidated by Proposition 218 and this measure
proposes to replace that funding with a special tax.

The purpose of the proposed special tax is to raise revenue necessary to
retain and enhance emergency medical services in the City of Oakland. As a
special tax, the funds generated by the imposition of the proposed measure
would be limited to the purpose stated in the measure, and could not be divert-
ed to any other purpose if a surplus were generated. This proposed measure is
not an ad valorem tax on real property, nor a transaction tax, nor sales tax on the
sale of real property.

This measure would impose a tax rate of $9.00 on each parcel with a single
family residence. For parcels with other uses, the tax rate is multiplied as follows:

Small Multiple Residential (2-4 units)	$18.00
Large Multiple Residential (5 or more)	$45.00
Commercial	$18.00
Industrial	$36.00
Rural	$ 9.00
Institutional	$ 9.00

Special taxes may be increased within limits approved by the voters. The
proposed measure includes a provision that allows the City Council to increase
the tax rate up to the change in the Consumer Price Index, but not more than
five percent (5%) per year. 1997 is the index year for any increases in the rate.
The City may reduce the amount of the tax in any year if the City has sufficient
funds to adopt a balanced budget while reducing the amount collected pursuant
to this measure.

The measure creates a collection and enforcement structure. The Director of
Finance is charged with collection and enforcement of the special tax, although in most cases the tax will be collected by the County Assessor in conjunction
with property taxes. An appeals process is provided, as well as the imposition
of penalties and interest on uncollected taxes. Failure to pay the special tax
would be a misdemeanor.

The proposed measure, as a special tax, must be approved by two-thirds (2/3)
of the eligible voters voting on the measure.

<impartialend>