

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION B



Ballot Proposition B will extend the existing 1995 City of Hawthorne Business
License Tax Rate indefinitely. The City now collects approximately $1.3 Million
in annual revenues from the business license tax.

Proposition B is a general tax, and revenues collected under Proposition B will
be used to pay for the cost of general city operations, including police protection,
fire/paramedic services, building inspections, code enforcement, park
maintenance and other public services.

In December 1995, the California Supreme Court held for the first time that
general taxes require voter approval. In addition, at the November 5, 1996
General Election, Proposition No. 218, the Right To Vote on Taxes Act, was
approved. The California Supreme Court decision, as well as this proposition,
changed the law governing the approval of general taxes, such as the Business
License Tax.

If Proposition B is approved by a majority vote, the existing business license tax
imposed On businesses operating within the City of Hawthorne will continue to
be applied against business owners. The tax is paid by the business and/or business
owner and will be collected by the City through the Business License Division.

If this measure is ratified and approved by the voters, the City may not increase
the tax rate without approval of the voters.

If Proposition B is not approved, the amount collected by the business license tax
will decrease by $1.3 million during this fiscal year. This loss equals about 6% of
the annual general tax revenue fund. Similar losses will occur in future years. The
financial effect on the City of losing this revenue source will be severe. At the time
of this writing, the city council is considering the adoption of a contingency Budget
I	Plan,	describing	reductions	that will be necessary if the existing business license

tax and the utility user tax are not extended, including the following reductions.

Police Department cut 35 full-time police officers, 6 full-time civilian
employees and 35 part-time positions: Department of Recreation and
Community Services cut 8 full-time employees and 94 part-time positions; and
other City Departments cut 10 full-time employees and 9 part-time positions.

