<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE B

To comply with the requirements of Proposition 218, the City of Mill Valley is proposing
to replace its existing municipal services tax with a long-term funding mechanism so that
the City may continue providing essential public services, including the following:

• Maintenance, repair and improvement of streets and roads.

• Maintenance, repair and improvement of storm drain facilities.’

•	Repair and stabilization of areas damaged due to landslides.

•	Fire suppression activities, including removal of vegetation.

To raise the money needed to continue providing these services, the City Council has
formed Community Facilities District No. 1997-1 (the “CFD”) covering the entire incorporated
territory of the City of Mill Valley, and has called this election within the CFD. This action
is authorized pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community Facilities District Act of 1982.

If passed, this Measure would authorize the annual levy of a special tax on residential
and commercial properties within the CFD and the setting of an appropriations limit pursuant
to Article XIII B of the California Constitution. The rate and method of apportionment for
the special tax is set forth in City Council Resolution No. 97-24. The tax rates for affected
properties would be the same as the rates levied under the existing municipal services
tax: $145 per residence and $72.50 for a second residential unit; $145 for the first unit
and $72.50 for each additional unit in a multiple family property (provided at least one
unit has at least 700 s.f.); rates on commercial properties will vary by the number of
square feet. Voters are referred to Resolution No. 97-24 (set forth in the ballot pamphlet)
for the precise terms of the tax formula. The special tax proceeds would be used solely
to pay for the authorized municipal services and the costs of administering the CFD. No
bonds would be issued. The special tax could not be levied beyond Fiscal Year 2007-2008.

A two-thirds affirmative vote is required for passage.

<impartialend>