<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE X

Measure X asks the voters whether the City of Eureka should
continue to collect an utility users tax. The tax would be imposed
for approximately 5 years at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
usage of the following utility services:

(1)	Intrastate telephone communication services billed to an ac-
count located within the City’s boundaries; (2) Electrical energy
services supplied by an electric corporation or non-utility supplier
and used within the City’s boundaries; (3) Gas services supplied
by a gas corporation or non-utility supplier which is transported
either through pipes or by mobile transport and used within the
City’s boundaries; and (4) Cable television services used within the
City’s boundaries.

Several exemptions to the tax are expressly provided upon adequate proof to the Tax Administrator. First, persons who receive
Low Income Rate Assistance ("LIRA") from a gas or electrical corporation would be exempt from the tax on gas or electrical utility
usage. Second, persons who receive "Universal Lifeline Service"
from a telephone corporation would be exempt from paying the tax
on basic telephone services. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt additional classes of persons or
utilities. Finally, the tax would not be levied against persons or
entities exempt by law including local government agencies and
public schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider.
For each type of utility service taxed, taxation would be limited to
a maximum of $1,000.00 per fiscal year, upon adequate proof to
the Tax Administrator that taxes will reach or exceed the $1,000.00
maximum year for a particular utility.

The utility users tax is a general tax and all revenue generated by
the tax would go to the City’s general fund to provide essential governmental services including, but not limited to, police, public works,
parks and recreation and other essential government services provided by the City. It is estimated that the tax will generate approximately $900,000.00 of the City’s general fund budget of Fourteen
Million Dollars ($14,000,000.00) for fiscal year 1997-1998.

The tax as proposed in Measure X is identical to the present
utility users tax, adopted by the Council in 1994. Voter approval of
this Measure would amend the City’s present utility users tax by
extending it to July 2003. This measure must be approved by a
majority of the voters.

<impartialend>