<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A
BY THE GRASS VALLEY CITY ATTORNEY

The Grass Valley City Attorney has been directed by the
City Council of the City of Grass Valley to prepare an
impartial analysis of Measure A showing the effect of the
measure on the existing law and the operation of the
measure; the impartial analysis is as follows:

The city presently has a city-wide fire suppression
assessment; the assessment is levied to enable the city to
hire and pay the salaries for three full-time firefighters for
the city’s fire department. The three firefighter positions are
to allow for the staffing of a second firefighter for
emergency medical and fire responses on a 24 hour a day
basis. This assessment will expire as of June 30, 1997. In
addition to the fire suppression assessment a $48 first
responder fee is presently charged to any person
requesting medical assistance whenever fire department
personnel respond.

Proposition 218, approved by the voters last November,
requires beginning July 1, 1997, all existing, new, or
increased assessments imposed by the City of Grass Valley
be submitted to the electors of the city for approval. The
proposed special tax will eliminate the fire suppression
assessment and the first responder fee. The annual tax as
proposed in Ordinance No. 549 is as follows:

Classification	Amount of tax

Single family residential (per parcel)	$	28.00

Multi-family (duplex or larger; per unit) $ 15.00
Mobile Home Park (per unit)	$	14.00

Commercial/industrial (per business)	$	30.00

Any other improved parcel	$	30.00

Any unimproved buildable parcel	$	10.00

The amount of the tax for each classification may be
increased July 1 of each year in an amount equal to
percentage of increase of the Consumer Price Index for the
previous year, not to exceed 5 percent. The City Council
may suspend the imposition of any such increase for any
given year.

Individuals working out of a common commercial/industrial

space or sharing a common office will be classified as a
single business and responsible for the payment of a single
unit of tax except in those instances when the owner or
master tenant of the commercial/industrial space or office
utilized in such a manner pays the tax for the single unit
payment.

Those taxes levied on parcels will be collected at the same
time as property taxes; individual business taxes shall be
collected with the annual business license tax.

Adoption of the measure requires approval by a two-thirds
vote of those voting in the special election; the measure if
approved will become effective July 1, 1997.

<impartialend>