<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF SAN CLEMENTE

In recent years, the City of San Clemente has funded certain services - including maintenance of street lighting, street medians, street parkway
landscaping, and parks and beach maintenance - through a City-wide assessment district. In the 1996-97 fiscal year, the City is raising
approximately $1.87 million of revenue for these purposes through the existing assessment district.

In November 1996, California's voters adopted Proposition 218. Proposition 218 imposes limitations on the authority of cities to continue imposing
assessments of the type used in San Clemente, including a requirement that such assessments be approved by landowners representing a majority
of the assessed valuation of property located within the assessment district voting on the matter at a mailed ballot election.

The San Clemente City Council has determined to not seek approval from San Clemente’s voters for a continuation of the existing maintenance
assessment in the 1997-98 fiscal year. Accordingly, the City legally will not be able to continue to collect the $1.8 million (or any other assessment
amount) that it anticipates receiving this year. Instead, the City Council has unanimously elected to submit to the City's voters an initiative measure
which, if adopted, would partially offset the loss of the assessment revenue with a new utility users’ tax.

If adopted, the proposed utility users' tax would apply to the following: intrastate telephone services (excluding land and marine mobile services),
electricity and gas utility services, water that is delivered through mains or pipes, cable television services (excluding charges for premium channels),
and sanitary sewer services. The tax would be collected by the City from the service supplier which in turn would pass the cost on to the service
user on the service user's bill.

The maximum rate of the utility users’ tax authorized by this measure would be 2.5% for the approximately 5 years ending June 30, 2002, at
which time the maximum tax rate would be reduced to 1.5% for the 5 years ending June 30. 2007. On July 1. 2007, the authority to continue
imposing the tax would terminate. At the initial 2.5% rate, and based upon information obtained from utility service providers, the City estimates
the utility tax would generate approximately $1.2 million in revenue in the 1997-98 fiscal year.

If this measure is approved by a majority but less than two-thirds of the City’s voters, the proceeds of the tax would be deposited in the general ;
fund of the City and would be available for general governmental purposes. If this measure is approved by a two-thirds or greater vote, the tax
would be designated as a special tax and the proceeds would be restricted for beach, parks, and recreation uses only.

In no event would the City Council be authorized to increase the maximum tax rate, extend the,period during which the tax is effective, or add
to the types of services subject to the tax without subsequent voter approval.

<impartialend>