<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Parlier Ordinance No. 98-05 was enacted by the Parlier City Council on July 21,1998. Ordinance No.
98-05 enacts new Chapter 3.28 of the Parlier Municipal Code establishing a Utility Users Tax, subject to
approval by the voters.

The Utility Users Tax imposes a four (4%) percent tax on telephone, electricity, gas, and sewer and water
service utility charges. Taxes are to be collected by the utilities providing these services with their
regular bills to their customers. There are special procedures for collecting the Utility Users Tax from
the users of gas or electricity who are not billed for such services by a utility provider.

As a general tax, Ordinance No. 98-05 is subject to approval by a majority vote of the electors of the
CITY OF PARLIER at the State General Election on November 3,1998. If the tax is approved by the
voters, the tax will go into effect as of January 1,1999. The tax will automatically terminate in ten (10)
years, on December 31, 2009. The tax may be used for any municipal purpose.

Ordinance No. 98-05 includes a provision for exempting very low income, senior citizen households
from the tax. “Very low income” households means households in which the combined gross income
does not exceed fifty (50%) percent of the Fresno County median income for families that size.
Exemptions must be reapplied for each year in which the applicant seeks an exemption. The maximum
total Utility Users Tax is $10,000 per year.

Taxes will be collected by utility service providers and remitted directly to the City. There are provisions
requiring the reporting and remitting of taxes to the City and penalties for failing to collect or remit taxes
as required in the ordinance. There are administrative remedies and a penalty of 25% for failing to pay
taxes, with the right to appeal to the City Council. The Ordinance requires persons who collect and remit
taxes to the City to keep records of their collection and remittance activities, with the Tax Administrator
having the right to inspect such records. There is a provision authorizing tax refunds where taxes were
mistakenly or illegally paid, where the claimant is exempt from the payment of taxes, or where the
claimant overpaid taxes.

<impartialend>