<impartial>

CITY OF FILLMORE
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS*

MEASURE“D"

CITY MEASURE PROPOSING THAT THE CITY OF FILLMORE
ESTABLISH A UTILITIES USER TAX OF 4.5% OF THE CHARGES FOR
TELEPHONE, ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER, SEWAGE TRANSPORT AND

TREATMENT, AND CABLE TELEVISION TO BE USED FOR THE
GENERAL GOVERNMENTAL PURPOSE OF THE CITY

Summary

The City Council of the City of Fillmore proposes to impose a utilities
user tax of 4.5% of the charges for telephone, electricity, gas, water, sewage
transport and treatment, and cable television to be used for the general
governmental purpose of the City. All of the proceeds from this tax shall be
placed in the City’s General Fund and used for the current expenses of the
City. By way of example the City's General Fund categories for the fiscal
year ended June 30,1997 were as follows:

Category	Percentage	Expenditures
General Government	20%	$ 550,316.
Public Safety	59%	1,586,389.
Public Works	2%	48,513.
Community Development	8%	217,207.
Parks and Recreation	11%	286.703.
Total General Fund:	100%	$2,689,128.

The tax is to be implemented through an ordinance to be adopted by
the City Council, and will be effective should the measure pass by majority
vote of the electorate.

The telephone tax applies to intrastate telephone services. It does not
include charges for pay telephones, except when a coin-operated service is
supplied for a fixed amount, nor to land and maritime mobile services.

The electricity tax applies to electrical service provided in the City. It
does not apply to battery storage, but does apply to battery charging for vehicles or machinery. Also, exempted is the receipt of energy for resale or to energy used in the production or distribution of water by a water corporation.

The gas tax is on all gas delivered through mains or pipes. It does not
apply to charges made for gas delivered through mains or pipes for resale,
gas used in the generation of electrical energy by an electrical corporation
or for gas used and consumed in the conduct of the business of gas public
utilities.

The water tax is assessed for water usage in the City. Excluded from
the water tax is water delivered through mains or pipes for resale and water
consumed by a municipal water department, public utility or city or municipal
water district for water consumed by it.

The sewer user tax is assessed for sewage transport and treatment in
the City. It does not apply to a telephone corporation, electrical corporation,
water corporation or gas corporation.

The cable television user tax applies to all persons using cable television
services.

Penalties may be assessed against the service supplier for failure to
timely remit the amount of the tax collected to the City, and against the
service user for failure to pay the tax.

<impartialend>