<impartial>

MEASURE “W”

ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Chapter 3.52 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code contains the City’s Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax provisions. It is substantially similar, if not identical in wording, to the
Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinances of numerous California cities and counties.

Despite the virtual statewide uniformity of municipal law in this area for decades, the
Fourth District Court of Appeal ruled in November, 1997 that the City’s Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax as set forth in Chapter 3.52 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code is void
for vagueness and therefore unconstitutional.

As a result of the passage of Proposition 218 by the voters of the State of California on
November 6,1996, Article XIIIC and D of the California Constitution was amended to include,
among other conditions, the requirement that “No local government may impose, extend Or
increase any general tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved
by a majority vote."

On November 17,1997, the City of San Bernardino adopted a new transient lodging tax
ordinance codified in Chapter 3.54 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code which, if approval by a majority vote of the electorate as required by Proposition 218, would permit the City
to continue to receive the revenues from its room tax on hotel occupants.

The City of San Bernardino's transient lodging tax imposes a ten percent (10%) room tax
on hotel occupants. The tax is normally paid to the operator of the hotel at the time payment
for the room rental is made. The hotel operator is required to collect the tax and the operator
remits the tax to the City of San Bernardino on a monthly basis. Transient" is defined as
any person who, for any period of not more than ninety consecutive days, either at his own
expense or at the expense of another, obtains lodging or the use of any lodging space in
any hotel, for which lodging or use of lodging space a charge is made.

The estimated amount of money to be received by the General Fund of the City of San
Bernardino for the fiscal year beginning July 1,1998 as a result of the transient lodging tax
is approximately One Million, Six Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,600,000.00).

A “yes” vote would approve the measure and permit the City to continue to collect its ten
percent (10%) room tax on hotel occupants.

A "no" vote would reject the measure and would mean that the City's expected revenues
for the fiscal year beginning July 1,1998 will be reduced to the General Fund of the City of
San Bernardino by approximately One Million, Six Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,600,
000.00).

<impartialend>