<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Z

ELECTRIC BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

Proposition 218, enacted by the voters of the State of California on November 5, 1996, created Article XIII C of the State Constitution, which governs
imposition of general and special taxes. Proposition 218 requires that general
taxes imposed, extended or increased, between January 1, 1995 and November
6, 1996 (the effective date of Prop. 218) must be approved by a majority of the
voters at a general election. This measure submits to the voters the only tax
imposed, extended or increased by the City of Oakland within this time period.

On September 17, 1996, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 11911.
This Ordinance created a new classification for business license taxes, separating “Electric Businesses” from “Public Utilities,” and taxing Electric
Businesses at a higher rate than that imposed on Public Utilities. For the purposes of this measure, “Electric Businesses” are those entities selling, reselling,
or otherwise providing electrical energy, whether or not such business entity is
regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission or Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission. The Ordinance, and this measure, remove “Electric
Businesses” from the “Public Utility” business tax classification, to the extent
that these businesses formerly were subject to that classification.

The measure continues a tax rate on Electric Businesses of 0.6 percent
(00.6%) which is $6 per $1,000 of gross receipts or fractional part in excess of
$1,000 on gross receipts of businesses subject to this classification, with a mini-
mum annual tax of $60.00 per year.

The measure specifically provides that the City Council retains the right to
reduce or repeal the tax, however, the City Council may not increase the tax
without voter consent. The measure also provides that if the California Public
Utilities Commission approves a pass-through of this tax solely to the ratepayers of Oakland, the measure is suspended so long as the order remains effective.

The measure does not create any additional collection and enforcement structures, and will be enforced through existing procedures. The Director of
Finance is charged with collection and enforcement of the tax. An appeals
process is provided, as well as the imposition of penalties and interest on uncollected taxes. Failure to pay the Electric Business License Tax would be a mis-
demeanor.

<impartialend>
