<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Since 1970 the City has imposed a 5% tax on users of utility services, including gas, electricity, telephone
and cable TV. The proceeds of this tax go to the City’s General Fund services such as police, fire,
recreation and parks, and maintenance of public streets. Over the 25 years since the tax was adopted,
a number of significant changes have taken place in the telecommunications industry. In order to
incorporate these changes into the City’s ordinance, the City Council acted in 1995 to adopt amendments
to the utility users tax which had been recommended by the California League of Cities. These changes
included, but were not limited to, the inclusion of cellular phones, faxes, international and interstate
telecommunications, and a variety of video services. The language of the ordinance was also modernized so that future innovations in telecommunications would be covered by the ordinance.

In November of 1996 the voters approved State Proposition 218, which requires that any tax adopted
since January 1995 be submitted to the voters for approval. Because the City’s utility users tax was
modified after January 1,1995, these modifications must be approved by the voters if they are to remain
in effect.

The additions to the utility users tax adopted by the Council in 1995 generate approximately $1 million
each year in revenue which supports the City’s General Fund services. These funds are available for
all General Fund services, but have been used by the City Council since 1995 to fund the Neighborhood
Oriented Policing Program, a program which has assigned individual police officers to work with specific
neighborhoods throughout the City in an attempt to provide better police service through personal
contact between police officers and the citizens they serve.

If Measure C fails, Santa Rosa taxpayers will continue to pay tax on basic utility services such as
electricity, gas, telephone, and cable TV, but users of more modern innovations not covered by the 1970
ordinance will no longer have to pay tax on these innovations. In addition, the City’s General Fund will
lose approximately $1 million each year in revenues, and the City Council’s ability to fund existing '
programs will be substantially reduced. If Measure C is approved, the 1995 additions to the utility users
tax will remain in effect and City revenues from this source will not be reduced.

<impartialend>