

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

For many years, the City of San Leandro has required all businesses operating within the City to obtain a business license and pay a fee for that license.
The purpose of this program is to both regulate business and to raise revenue
for the City. There are two parts to the business license fee. Businesses are
required to pay an annual fee to obtain the license and also pay unit fees which
are calculated in different ways based on the type of business. For instance,
waste disposal companies are charged a fee based on the tonnage of solid waste
the business processes, carnivals are charged a daily fee, and commercial advertisers are charged a flat yearly fee. Some businesses are charged a per employee fee, as well as a fee calculated on the gross receipts the business receives.

In 1995, the City Council raised the amount of the business license fee to
provide additional revenue to the General Fund. In November 1996, the voters
approved Proposition 218, which requires that increases in certain fees and
taxes be approved by a majority of the voters. Proposition 218 requires the 1995
increases approved by the City Council to now be approved by the voters. In
February 1998, the City Council reduced some business license fees. However,
even though the City Council reduced some business license fees this year.
Proposition 218 requires voter approval of all the current business license fees.
A “yes” vote on this measure will approve all the adjustments in the license fees
previously passed by the City Council. These adjustments include an increase
in the license fee charged to certain businesses whose gross receipts exceed $1.5
million, an increase in the per employee fee, and an increase in the base fee
from $35 to $50. For a complete list of the business license fees, you may refer

to the chart in the full text of the measure contained in your ballot pamphlet

The business license fees are used for two purposes. A portion of the fees are
used to ensure that the businesses comply with City ordinances. The rest of the
fees are placed into the City’s General Fund, where they are used for a variety
of City programs and services. In 1997, much of the revenue from the increased
business license fees deposited into the General Fund was appropriated for the
Federal Anti-Crime COPS program which funded five additional police officers
in the City. The City Council has the discretion to appropriate the fees for any
General Fund purpose, however.
