<impartial>

MEASURE “K”

ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Measure K submits an existing city revenue source to the voters for their approval. The
passage of Measure K would enact an Ordinance authorizing the City to continue to collect
its Utility Users’ Tax at its current 5% rate.

The Utility Users’ Tax raises approximately $6 million in annual revenues for the City or
approximately 19% of the City’s current-year general revenue. The tax is a general tax and
is placed in the City’s General Fund where it may be spent for any City purpose, including
police, park development-maintenance and renovation, ballfield lighting, code enforcement,
street improvements, storm drains, recreation activities, planning and senior centers.

If Measure K is approved by a majority vote, the existing 5% tax on gas, electricity, water,
subscription television and telephone services will continue to be collected. This amounts
to approximately $12.50 per month for the average household. Approval of Measure K does
not increase the utility tax currently collected by the utility companies from each utility
customer and then paid to the City.

Measure K will establish the current tax rate as the maximum tax rate for the City of Fontana.
The tax rate can be reduced by the City Council but not increased without a majority vote
of the citizens of Fontana.

If Measure K is not approved by a majority vote, a significant portion, approximately 19%,
of the City’s annual general revenue will be lost. The City’s current budget allocates the $6
Million to various City services. On April 1, 1998, the City Council reviewed and approved
by consensus a service reduction plan in the event Measure K does not pass. These potential
reductions include:

•	Eliminating 43 full-time positions in the Police Department which provide services to the
School Crossing Guard Program, bike patrol, the DARE program, community service
officers program, traffic, among others; and

•	Eliminating graffiti abatement, resurfacing park courts and playground equipment, senior
citizen transportation program, and closing two community centers; and

•	Reducing park renovation projects and street resurfacing programs, cutting code
compliance by 40% and reducing various recreation programs or increasing fees that are
currently being subsidized by the General Fund.

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of adopting the ordinance.

A “no" vote is a vote against adopting the ordinance.

<impartialend>