<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE M

Measure M, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, will adopt the Park Maintenance Tax, a special tax that will
replace existing Landscaping and Lighting assessments. The tax will
be imposed on real property within the City of Davis for four (4)
years beginning July 1,1998, This tax, as Set forth in Ordinance No.
1927, will provide funding for the maintenance and operation of public
landscaping, community parks, greenbelts, open space, medians,
swimming pools, recreational and public facilities, and public lighting,
including street lights. As a special tax, the tax revenue must be
placed in a special fund and can only be used for these purposes
and incidental expenses related to these purposes.

The Park Maintenance Tax will replace the city-wide Landscaping
and Lighting District assessments. These assessments currently provide the funding for the maintenance and improvements that would
be funded by the Park Maintenance Tax. The current Landscaping
and Lighting assessments will sunset and expire on June 30, 1998
because of the passage of Proposition 218 at the November, 1996
statewide election. The Park Maintenance Tax on a residential parcel
will be less than the parcel's current annual assessment. Current
assessments for single-family residential units range from Eighty Dollars to One Hundred Forty-Nine Dollars ($80 to $149).

The Park Maintenance Tax will be imposed on parcels of property
within the City based on the use of the property. The maximum tax
per parcel per fiscal year (July 1 - June 30) is calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living
Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$49.00 per unit
$49.00 per unit
$20.00 per resident
$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of
Improved Building Space up to a
maximum of 10,000 square feet
$12.80 per employee up to a
maximum of 30 employees
$14.30 per 1,000 square feet of
Improved Building Space up to a
maximum of 10,000 square feet
$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

If approved by the voters, the tax would be imposed at the maximum
tax rate for the first two years of the tax. For the third and fourth
years of the tax, the City Council may set the tax at an amount not
to exceed the maximum tax rate.

The tax measure includes several exemptions to the tax including
an exemption for public property and the ability to adopt a low income
exemption.

The Park Maintenance Tax would be collected with the ad valorem
property taxes for each parcel, unless that City later decided to collect
the tax with other City taxes and charges.

This tax would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2002 and could
not be collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters voting
in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of the tax.

<impartialend>