

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE P

This measure authorizes the City of Madera to impose a transaction
and use tax,, commonly referred to as a "sales tax" in the amount of
twenty five cents for every one-hundred dollars of "sales" (.25%).

The net revenue generated by the "sales tax" may only be used for
Public Safety Services which are defined in the ordinance imposing
the proposed tax as follows:

"Public Safety Services" includes only the following services
administered by the Police Department under the direction of the
Chief of Police:

1.	Gang Prevention Programs.

2.	Expanding Neighborhood Watch Programs.

3.	Supervising offending youths and cleaning up graffiti.

4.	Police officer training and retention.

5.	School patrols and gang activity surveillance.

6.	Additional police officers for neighborhood patrols.

7.	Providing improved police officer equipment.

8.	Acquiring and using, specially trained dogs to assist in
tracking and drug and building searches.

There are other limitations on the use of the net revenues generated
by the "sales tax" including the following:

The net revenue generated by the "sales tax" must be
used as an increase in funding of "public safety services"
over and above the amount of funding used for the Police
Department in the 1996-1997 fiscal year. This means that
the revenue received from the "sales tax" cannot be used in
place of the level of City revenues that were being used to
fund the Police Department in the 1996-1997 fiscal year.

There must be an annual accounting, audit and public hearing
outlining the use of all revenue received from the "sales tax".

"Net revenue" means all of the revenue generated by the "sales tax"
less the amount charged by the State Board of Equalization for
collecting the tax.	

The "sales tax" will be collected, administered and distributed by the
State Board of Equalization and at current rates, is estimated to
generate approximately $769,000.00 annually.

The current sales tax rate in the City of Madera is 7.75%. The
increase in the "sales tax" will result in a total sales tax rate in the
City of Madera of 8.00%.

The "sales tax" will be in effect until January 2007.

The "sales tax" will not go into effect unless it receives a two-thirds
majority vote of all qualified electors voting on this measure.

