



CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This ordinance authorizes the City of San Diego [City] to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding [Memorandum] and related agreements with the San Diego Padres [Padres], the
Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Diego [Agency], and the Centre City Development
Corporation [Corporation] to undertake a major redevelopment project and construction of a
baseball park in a Ballpark District [District] within the current downtown redevelopment area.

If approved, the Memorandum will provide the following: The District will be established in the
area generally east of the Gaslamp Quarter and near the Convention Center expansion. The
project cost will be $411 million. The Padres will invest $115 million, which may come from various
private sources including naming rights, concession rights, and Padres' equity. The City will invest
$225 million. Although not specifying the source of City fund, the Memorandum indicates that
existing and future general fund revenue may be used to finance the City's investment. The Padres
will provide certain protection to the City for some of the future revenues. The Agency and
Corporation will Invest $50 million, from a combination of existing funds and real property tax
Increment. Additional funding or project value of $21 million must be secured, or the project scaled
back in that amount.

The Padres will design and construct the ballpark, with the City's participation. Opening day is
targeted for April, 2002. The ballpark cost will be $267.5 million and the Padres must pay any
construction costs over that amount. The City, Agency and Corporation will generally be
responsible for all land acquisition and Infrastructure costs, which will be capped at $143.5 million,
subject only to an exception that the Padres receive game-time revenue from 5,000 parking
spaces near the ballpark, which spaces will augment approximately 12,000 spaces near the
District.

The City will own 70% of the ballpark, the Padres 30%. The Padres must play at the ballpark for
30 years or until the ballpark bonds are retired, whichever is earlier, but at least 22 years, after
which time the City will own 100% of the ballpark. The Padres will operate the ballpark and pay
$500,000 annually (plus C.P.I.) in rent. The City's share of annual operating expenses (expected
to be $9-10 million) Is capped at $3.5 million (plus C.P.I,); the Padres pay all annual operating
expenses over the City's cap. The Padres will generally be responsible for capital expenditures.
The Padres will retain all revenue from their use of the ballpark. The City will retain net revenue
generated by events sponsored by the City.

The Padres are required to arrange for substantial private redevelopment immediately
surrounding the ballpark, to generate new revenue to support the City's, Agency’s and
Corporation’s investment. To facilitate the required redevelopment, the private developer will be
given certain rights and opportunities, consistent with all laws. Numerous conditions must be
satisfied for the project to proceed, including full compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act and the City's receipt of assurances that the private redevelopment will proceed and
generate the necessary revenue.

