<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

Measure V is a proposed Ordinance which would establish a Special Tax for
Public Safety Police Services. In order to impose the Special Tax, voter approval
must be obtained from the qualified electors of Pomona.

Currently, no Special Tax for public safety police services exist in the City of
Pomona. If approved, the tax would provide for: (1) the establishment and
operation of six neighborhood centers for community-oriented policing in each
Council district; (2) the annual replacement of police vehicles; (3) the retention
of the Pomona Police Department’s Aero Bureau program; (4) an upgrade of the
Police Department’s Radio Communications System; and (5) the employment of
additional police officers.

The proposed Special Tax would be effective for four years, expiring in June 2002.
The Special Tax is anticipated to generate $3.0 million as a maximum and the
ordinance empowers the City Council to establish the actual tax levy each fiscal
year in amounts below the maximum.

The proposed tax rates are determined based on land use. Single Family
Residential (SFR) parcels are proposed to be taxed on a dwelling unit basis.
Mobile Homes and vacant single family lots would be taxed at 50% of a SFR. The
proposed rates for non-residential parcels, such as commercial and industrial
properties, are based on parcel acreage, with six dwelling units equivalent to one
parcel acre, and with a maximum of five acres. Vacant non-residential parcels are
proposed to be taxed at 50% of the non-residential rate.

The maximum amount of the tax for each of the fiscal years shall be as follows:

Single-Family Residential (Including condo units)

$65.00 per dwelling unit for each developed parcel

Multiple Family Residential

$65.00 per dwelling unit for each developed parcel
Mobile Home Residential

$32.50 per dwelling unit for each developed parcel

Single Family Residential Vacant
$32.50 per parcel

Non-Residential (Commercial and Industrial)

$390.00 per acre for each parcel (5 acres maximum)

Non-Residential Vacant
$195.00 per acre for each parcel (5 acres maximum)

The proposed Special Tax would be imposed on each parcel of property, and the
tax shall not be measured by the value of the property. The Special Tax is
proposed to be collected by the Los Angeles County Assessor in the same manner
and dates as property taxes are collected.

A “yes” vote would approve the imposition of a Special Tax for Public Safety
Police Services.

A “no” vote is against the imposition of a Special Tax for Public Safety Police
Services.

This measure must be approved by two-thirds of “yes” votes cast at the election,
in order to take effect.

<impartialend>