<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

On January 12,1998, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 563
“AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH AUTHO-
RIZING A SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION AND FIRE
PROTECTION AND PREVENTION AND PROVIDING FOR AN
ELECTION THEREON” (the “Ordinance”). The Ordinance proposes
adding Chapter 3.30 to the Hillsborough Municipal Code to provide for
the annual levy of a special non-ad valorem tax on parcels of real property in Hillsborough to be used solely to maintain and enhance police
and fire protection and prevention services. If approved, this special tax
(to be known as the “Special Police and Fire Tax”) would replace the
general fund tax and general fund tax surcharge, which are currently
assessed in Hillsborough. The Special Police and Fire Tax would take
effect July 1, 1998, for fiscal years 1998-1999 and thereafter.

The special tax would be $496 for fiscal year 1998-1999 for each
improved parcel and $ 190 for fiscal year 1998-1999 for each unimproved
parcel. In each subsequent fiscal year, the amount of each tax would be
the previous year’s tax plus two percent (2%), but never to exceed 115%
of the fiscal year 1998-1999 tax amount. The City Council could decide
to collect less than the full amount of this special tax for any fiscal year
for which the Council determined that the full amount was not necessary
to meet police and fire expenditures. However, the amount of this special tax could not in any event exceed the maximum amount set forth in
the Ordinance. If acceptable to the County Tax Collector, the special tax
would be billed on the secured roll tax bills for ad valorem property
taxes and collected by the County Tax Collector on behalf of the Town.
Otherwise, the special tax would be collected directly by the Town. If
unpaid, the special tax would be subject to the same liens and penalties
as ad valorem property taxes.

In order to become effective, the Ordinance must be approved by
two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast at the election on this Ordinance. If the
Ordinance is approved by the voters and then certified by the City Council, Chapters 3.28 and 3.36 of the Hillsborough Municipal Code (the
general fund tax and general fund tax surcharge) would be repealed effective the end of fiscal year 1997-1998, although such repeal would not
eliminate any liability for general fund taxes or surcharges, and related
charges, applicable to fiscal years 1997-1998 or earlier. Each fiscal year’s
special tax would be collected with the property tax bills issued for such
fiscal year. If the Ordinance is not approved by the voters. Chapters 3.28
and 3.36 and the general fund taxes and surcharges provided for there-
under would remain in full force and effect.

The effect of a “YES” vote will be to ratify approval of the Ordinance and special tax and repeal the general fund tax and general fund
tax surcharge. The effect of a “NO” vote will be to disapprove the Ordinance and the special tax and to leave the general fund tax and general
fund tax surcharge in effect.

<impartialend>