<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

The proposed Ordinance, if adopted, will add a new tax to be charged to persons staying in hotels within
the City. Revenue from the new tax will be placed in the City’s general fund for use in helping to pay the
cost of all general fund expenses, including law enforcement, fire protection, parks maintenance,
building maintenance, senior center, and general administration. The tax revenue generated will not
replace or reduce any existing tax. Rather, the new tax will increase revenue to the City’s General Fund.
The tax rate is ten percent (10%) of the room charge to any persons staying in a hotel, inn, tourist home,
motel, hostel, rooming house, or lodging place for a period not exceeding ninety days. The City
currently has no similar tax.

The proposed Ordinance includes mandatory procedures for the collection of the tax by the hotel
owner(s). All tax revenues are required to be transmitted to the City Finance Director monthly along with
various reports. Hotel owners failing to collect the tax, transmit the revenue collected, or submit the
required reports are subject to monetary penalties. Such penalties may be appealed to the City Council.

Since permanent residents of the City would not be subjected to the proposed tax, the Ordinance will
increase the cost of staying in a hotel room in the City. Assuming an average cost of $25.00 per day for
a hotel room, the tax will add $2.50 per day. For a $50.00 per day hotel room, the tax will add $5.00 per
day. The City Finance Department estimates that there are currently 19 hotel rooms in the City. At
$50.00 per day, and assuming full occupancy, the tax could generate $34,675.00 annually. At 50%
occupancy, the tax could generate $17,337.50 annually. Additional hotel rooms constructed in the City
could add to the revenue generated.

The proposed Ordinance and tax cannot be implemented unless it is approved by a majority of the City’s
voters.

<impartialend>