<impartial>

CITY OF SANTA PAULA
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

MEASURE "L"

The City Council of the City of Santa Paula has proposed to impose a
utility users' tax of 4.5% of the charges for telephone, electricity, gas, water,
wastewater transport and treatment, and cable television to be used exclusively
to hire additional police and fire personnel and to increase police and fire
services, salaries and equipment above the amount of the general fund
budget for the 1998/1999 fiscal year.

The tax is to be implemented through an ordinance to be adopted by
the City Council, and to be effective should the measure pass by a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of the electorate.

The telephone tax applies to intrastate telephone services. It does not
include charges for pay phones, except when a coin-operated service is sup-
plied for a fixed amount, nor to land and maritime mobile services.

The electricity tax applies to electrical service provided in the City. It
does not apply to battery storage, but does apply to battery charging for vehicles or machinery. Also, exempted is the receipt of energy for resale or to energy used in the production or distribution of water by a water utility or
governmental entity.

The gas tax is on all gas delivered through mains or pipes or mobile
transport. It does not apply to charges made for gas delivered through mains
or pipes for resale, gas used and consumed by a gas public utility or
governmental agency in the conduct of business, gas used by an electrical
corporation to generate energy, or gas used to propel a motor vehicle.

The water tax is assessed for water usage in the City. Excluded from
the water tax is water delivered through mains or pipes for resale and water
consumed by a municipal water department, public utility or municipal water
district for water consumed by it.

The wastewater transport and treatment users tax is assessed for
wastewater transport and treatment in the City.

The cable television users tax applies to all persons using cable television
services and includes wireless subscription services.

Penalties may be assessed against the service supplier for failure to
timely remit the amount of the tax collected to the City, and against the service user for failure to pay the tax.

It is estimated that, in the first year, approximately $881,000 will be raised
from the tax.

Appropriations for personnel, salaries, benefits, equipment and other
expenses are to be made only to the extent the actual utility tax revenue collected is adequate to fund those expenditures, and if it is less than adequate, reductions may be made.

If utility tax revenues exceed the actual costs of providing the increased
Police and services, salaries and equipment the City Council must
spend the excess revenue on other Police and Fire services and equipment.

If in future budget years overall City general fund revenues decline below fiscal year 1998/1999, Police and Fire Department budgets will be subject to reductions in a proportion equal to, or less than, all other City general
fund departments.

<impartialend>