<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE J

This measure would authorize an amendment to the San Rafael Municipal Code to
increase the maximum rate of the Paramedic Service Special Tax on residential and
non-residential structures located within the City. Currently, the Paramedic Tax is $40.00
per living unit for residential structures and five (5) cents per square foot, with a limit
imposed of $500 for every one (1) cent per square foot of tax levied (this will result in
a maximum of $2,500), for non-residential structures. This measure would approve
increasing the maximum tax rate to $53.00 per living unit for residential structures, and
seven (7) cents per square foot, with a limit of $500 for every one (1) cent per square
foot of tax levied (this will result in a maximum of $3,500), on non-residential structures.
This measure would also approve increasing the appropriations limit of the City of San
Rafael for four (4) years by the total amount collected under this tax so as to enable the
City to expend the amount collected, as authorized per Article XII! B of the California
Constitution.

This measure would establish a maximum rate for the paramedic tax. The actual tax
imposed each year would continue to be set by the City Council, following review of all
costs of the Paramedic Service Program during the annual City budget process. The City
Council may, but need not, increase the tax if, and only if, the paramedic program costs
are determined to exceed the current paramedic tax revenue, and only to the level necessary
to fully fund the paramedic service program. This measure does not result in automatic
raising of the paramedic tax to the maximum levels permitted under it. This measure
prohibits the City Council from setting paramedic tax rates in excess of the “ceiling"
established by this measure. In the past five years, the City Council has adjusted this
tax 3 times: 1994 from $28.40 to $34.10, 1995 from $34.10 to $37.00, and 1996 from
$37.00 to $40.00. This measure will not affect the current requirement that the City Council
continue to attempt to maintain parity between the tax rate for residential living units and
non-residential occupancies.

All proceeds derived from imposition of this tax are required to be specifically used
for funding of Paramedic Service within the City of San Rafael.

The ordinance amendment proposed by this measure will be adopted if approved by
a two-thirds majority of those electors voting on the measure.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>