
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

The City’s Hotel/Motel Tax is. paid by guests staying 30 days of less at hotels,
motels, inns and similar lodging establishments in Fremont This general tax is
used to fund basic City services, including Police, Fire and Maintenance services. This tax has been collected since 1964. A separate question on this ballot
asks the voters to affirm the existing rate of 8%. This ballot question asks voters
whether the rate should be increased to 10%.

The enactment of Proposition 218 (the “Right to Vote on Taxes Act”) in
November 1996 requires that any increase in a general tax be placed on a general election ballot in which City Council seats are open, and that the increase be
approved by a simple majority of the voters. The next time such a measure can
be brought to the voters is November 2000.

Of the cities in the Bay Area that collect a Hotel/Motel Tax, excluding Fremont,
10 cities have a rate between 6.5% and 8.9%, 18 cities have a rate between 9%
and 10%, and 3 cities have a rate greater than 10%. Sixteen cities currently
impose a Hotel/Motel Tax at the rate of 10%. In evaluating the potential impact
of a Hotel/Motel Tax rate increase on lodging establishments and their customers, an increase in the rate from 8% to 10% will increase the cost of a $100
hotel/motel room from $108 to $110, a $2 difference. The Hotel/Motel Tax for a
$150 room at the same rate would increase by $3.

In addition to increasing the tax rate, other changes are proposed to the ordinance governing the Hotel/Motel Tax. One change would amend the ordinance
to more clearly define those subject to the tax to be individuals renting rooms
in lodging establishments. This change minimizes the risk that a company could
rent a hotel/motel room for more than 30 days and then allow different individuals to stay in that room, thereby avoiding paying the Hotel/Motel Tax after the
first 30 days of the rental. Another change is in the appeals process. The ordinance currently provides that a .board of review, composed of the City Manager,
City Clerk and City Attorney, consider the request for appeal and all relevant
evidence offered by the lodging establishment operator and the Finance
Director, and then grant or deny the appeal. The proposed change would direct
the City Manager to appoint a hearing officer to hear the appeal. The appointed
hearing officer would set a hearing date within 45 days of receipt of the request,
and the process and guidelines for the hearing are further defined in the ordinance. This proposed appeals process is consistent with the appeals process
used for other City matters.

