<impartial>

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY


IMPARTIAL SUMMARY
BY RONALD F. DEATON, CHIEF LEGISLATIVE ANALYST

This measure would generate approximately $769.4 million in 1999-
2000 dollars over a 20 year period for the completion of sidewalk and
related improvements required by the Federal Americans with Disabilities
Act, and for general sidewalk repairs and ongoing maintenance. For a
1,200 square foot home, the average annual tax would be $21.

The City is required by the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
to make sidewalks accessible to people with disabilities. Over 123,000
ADA improvements need to be done and the City does only about 880
annually. The required improvements include constructing 108,000 curb
ramps, leveling 14,000 driveway aprons, relocating 750 bus benches and
shelters, placing crossbars on 165 grills/gratings, and improving access
to 363 public stairways and 171 pedestrian bridges, overcrossings and
underpasses. There are also over 4,600 miles of public sidewalks
throughout the City that are damaged and are in need of repair or
replacement. The City currently does only temporary asphalt sidewalk
repairs.

This measure would allow the City to charge a special tax to make
improvements to sidewalks throughout the City. The tax would fund all
sidewalk improvements required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. It
would also fund repairs at sidewalks that are currently damaged or
become damaged during the life of the tax, and would fund preventive
maintenance to avoid future damage. The tax would be imposed annually
for 20 years. All ADA improvements would be done in the first 10 years.
Other sidewalk repairs would be done over the full 20 years of the measure.

The measure would require the City Council to adopt an annual
expenditure plan and tax rate in accordance with the schedule included
in the proposed Special Tax Ordinance. The tax rate schedule would be
adjusted for changes in the Consumer Price Index for the Los Angeles
area.

The measure requires an annual performance evaluation by City
departments. It also requires a Sidewalk Improvement Oversight
Committee to evaluate whether projects in the expenditure plan were
completed on-time and within budget and to provide recommendations
for lowering costs and improving efficiency.

For each parcel of improved property, the annual tax would be
computed by multiplying the tax rate by the gross square footage of the
improvements located on the parcel. For each unimproved parcel, the
annual tax would be based on 500 square feet of improvements,
regardless of the size of the parcel. Parcels owned by organizations which
are exempt from federal income tax, such as non-profit organizations,
would be exempt from the proposed tax. The tax would also establish a
method to correct errors in the computation of the tax and would establish
a refund procedure.

All taxes collected under this measure would be placed in a Special
Sidewalk Safety Tax Fund and could only be used to pay for sidewalk
improvements. This special tax will only become law if two-thirds of the
voters approve it.


<impartialend>