CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
UTILITY TAX MEASURE T

EXISTING LAW

The City of Pinole currently does not collect a  utility roar tax. The City previously had a utility users tax on electricity, gas, and telephone services which was repealed by the voters in 1997.

Under existing las, approval by the voters is required for the City to reenact a tax on these services. 

OPERATION OF MEASURE

If passed, this measure would reenact a utility users tax on electricity, gas, and the telephone services. The new tax would go into effect December 1, 1998, stay in effect for six years and then automatically end. The tax would be collected at a a rate of 8% with the funds being collected by the utility providing the service and then placed into the City's General Fund. 

The measure will provide exemptions from the tax for low-income residents, recipients of veterans/survivors pension Benefits and recipients of certain government aid. Information on the procedure for applying for an exemption will be provided by the utility company in the service user's bill when the tax begins and for all new users thereafter. The measure may not be amended except by a vote of the people. If any portion of the measure is found invalid, the rest of the measure will remain in effect.

EFFECT OF THE MEASURE

The prior utility users tax was in effect for six years. During that period, the revenue collected was approximately $1,000,000 or more per year. This revenue was used for the City's General Fund programs and services, including helping to pay for personnel, equipment and applies for emergency Police, Fire and Medical response. Community Policing and problem solving programs, including neighborhood/business watch and other crime and fire prevention services; maintenance of parks, medians, streets, and public facilities; and the Senior Center, Swim Center, and Recreation programs for youth and adults. That revenue is no longer available since the repeal of the previous utility users tax and some of these services have been reduced. If approved, this revenue will significantly increase the revenue available to the City's General Fund for the operation of these City programs and services. 

The City Council has the discretion to appropriate the fees for any General Fund purpose, however.


