

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
This measure would ratify the continuation of three existing City taxes.
In 1995, the Mayor convened the New Realities Task Force which was comprised of 25 citizens from a broad cross-section of the community, with representatives from business, labor, clergy, academia and neighborhood groups, to study organizational efficiency, revenue, expenditure and personnel issues. One goal of the Task Force was to design a comprehensive package of proposals and reforms to correct the structural imbalance that exists between the City's revenues and expenditures. On April 16, 1996, the Task Force presented a package of recommendations to the City Council. Included as part of the Task Force package was the imposition or increase of three general taxes, referred to as the New Realities Taxes. The implementing ordinances, adopted by the City Council on October 29, 1996, did the following:
	1	Increased the City's business tax, for the first time since 1983, by 3%, and provided a method for annually adjusting the rates for inflation by no more than 3% per year. 
	2	Expanded the City's 5% telephone users tax, which previously applied only to in-state telephone calls, to include out-of-state phone calls. 
	3	Changed the methodology for calculating the business tax on fuel tank farms to be based on fuel storage capacity or number of employees, depending on which method resulted in the higher amount.
On November 5, 1996, the voters passed Proposition 218, a state-wide initiative that, among other things, requires that any taxes imposed or increased after January 1,1995, must be ratified by the voters before November 6,1998 in order not to be discontinued. The purpose of this ballot measure is to comply with that requirement. If this measure passes, the above described ordinances will stay in effect. If this measure fails, the business tax will be lowered to the 1996 rates and will not increase over time, irrespective of the amount of inflation. Also, the telephone users tax will apply only to in-state calls, and the business tax for fuel tank farms will be calculated based on number of employees rather than fuel storage capacity.
In the last fiscal year, the City collected an estimated amount of over $11,000,000 from these three sources of revenue. Therefore, if this measure fails to pass, the City's current General Fund revenue will be reduced.

