<impartial>


CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE P

Effect of Measure on Existing Law

Under current law, the ongoing maintenance of the City of
Rocklin’s neighborhood parks is funded, in part, through the
Rocklin Park Development and Maintenance District. This
district, which was established in 1986, levies an annual
assessment on all residential parcels within the City in the
amount of $30.00 for each single-family dwelling. The assessment for each multi-family dwelling (condominiums, duplexes,
triplexes, and apartments) mobile home units, and vacant
residential lots ranges from $10.00 to $30.00.

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting
on the measure, would eliminate the current annual park
maintenance assessment and replace it with a voter approved
special tax. The tax would be levied in exactly the same
amount on the same residential properties as the existing
assessment. Because it is a special tax, the tax revenue
would be restricted to park development and maintenance.
The City Council could not increase the tax rate without
voter approval. The tax would have to be reauthorized by the
voters in ten years; if it were not reauthorized, it would expire
on June 30, 2009.

Operation of Measure

The measure would:

Eliminate the current park development and maintenance
district annual assessment and replace it with an annual
special tax to be levied in the same amount and on the same
properties as are subject to the current assessment. The tax
would be levied and collected in the same manner as real
property taxes.

Prohibit the City Council from increasing the tax rate without
voter approval.

Require the special tax revenues to be used only for park
development and maintenance purposes.

Remain in effect until June 30, 2009, unless reauthorized by
the voters prior to that date.

Fiscal Impact

Approval of the measure would have no net fiscal impact. The
special tax proceeds received by the City would be equal to
the park development and maintenance district assessments
that would no longer be collected.


<impartialend>