
<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL OF
MEASURE M 98
GENERAL HOSPITAL SPECIAL TAX

This measure is intended to determine whether an ordinance increasing
the county-wide sales tax by one-quarter percent as a transactions and
use tax, shall be approved as a special tax for the purpose of generating
revenue, all of which will be used for capital improvements, operation of
the inpatient unit, and emergency room services at the County General
Hospital (“the Hospital").

In accordance with Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.5, the
County Board of Supervisors has adopted a resolution (No. 98-240)
establishing the San Luis Obispo County General Hospital Financing
Authority (The Authority”) for the specific purpose of raising funds to
finance the continued operation of the Hospital. The Authority has
determined that the Hospital plant is obsolescent and must be substantially
upgraded or replaced by January 1, 2008, in order to meet state seismic
safety standards that will become effective on that date. (Board Resolution
No. 98-241.) The Authority has also determined that the County does
not have the resources to finance the Hospital’s upgrade or replacement,
and has found that the demand for inpatient services has been steadily
declining for many years and is insufficient to generate the necessary
revenue to finance the upgrade or replacement by January 1, 2008.

Statutory law provides that the Authority may impose a transaction
and use tax to generate revenue for the purpose for which the Authority
was established. (Revenue & Tax Code,  7285.5.) Revenue and Taxation
Code section 7251 et seq. authorizes transaction and use taxes on retail
sales throughout the County’s jurisdiction. Therefore, in accordance with
the California Constitution, article, the Authority has decided to
submit to the voters of the County the question of whether an ordinance,
passed by the Board on July 14, 1998, shall be approved which would
increase the county-wide sales tax by one-quarter percent as a
transactions and use tax. All of the revenue generated by the special
tax would be used to: (1) support continued operating expenses of the
Hospital; (2) support necessary capital improvements in order for the

Hospital to meet seismic safety standards; and (3) avoid the 
to close the Hospital. The special tax authorized by this Measure to
be imposed only in the event that two-thirds of the qualified voters vote
on the Measure approve it.

A "yes” vote on this Measure is a vote in favor of approving a special
tax in the form of an ordinance which would increase the county-wide
sales tax by one-quarter percent as a transactions and use tax for the
purpose of generating revenue for the continued operation of the County
General Hospital.

A “no" vote on this Measure is a vote against approving a special tax
in the form of an ordinance which would increase the county-wide sales
tax by one-quarter percent as a transactions and use tax for the purpose
of generating revenue for the continued operation of the County General
Hospital. <impartialend>


