<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

Measure W is a proposed Ordinance which would establish a Special Tax for Parks
and Recreation Services. In order to impose the Special Tax, voter approval must
be obtained from the qualified electors of Pomona.

Currently, no Special Tax for parks and recreation services exist in the City of
Pomona. If approved, the tax would provide for: (1) the establishment and
enhancement of recreation programs; (2) the establishment of a Park and Tree
Maintenance fund; (3) the establishment of a Capital Improvement Program; and
(4) the purchase of equipment and construction of improvements among several
City of Pomona parks.

The Special Tax is anticipated to generate $2.2 million as a maximum and the
ordinance empowers the City Council to establish the actual tax levy each fiscal
year in amounts below the maximum.

The proposed tax rates are determined based on land use. Single Family
Residential (SFR) parcels are proposed to be taxed on a dwelling unit basis.
Mobile Homes and vacant single family lots would be taxed at 50% of a SFR. The
proposed rates for non-residential parcels, such as commercial and industrial
properties, are based on parcel acreage, with six dwelling units equivalent to one
parcel acre, and with a maximum of five acres. Vacant non-residential parcels are
proposed to be taxed at 50% of the non-residential rate.

Single—Family Residential (Including condo units)

$47.00 per dwelling unit for each developed parcel

Multiple Family Residential

$47.00	per dwelling unit for each developed parcel

Mobile Home Residential

$23.50 per dwelling unit for each developed parcel

Single Family Residential Vacant
$23.50 per parcel

Non-Residential (Commercial and Industrial)

$282.00 per acre for each parcel (5 acres maximum)

Non-Residential Vacant

$141.00 per acre for each parcel (5 acres maximum)

The proposed Special Tax would be imposed on each parcel of property, and the
i.ix shall not be measured by the value of the property. I'he Special Tax is
proposed to be collected by the Los Angeles County Assessor in the same manner
and dates as property taxes are collected.


A “yes” vote would approve the imposition of a Special Tax for Parks and
Recreation Services.

A “no” vote is against the imposition of a Special Tax for Parks and Recreation
Services.

This measure must be approved by two-thirds of “yes” votes cast at the election,
in order to take effect.

<impartialend>