

<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

FIREARMS BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

If adopted, this measure would create a new category of business license tax,
amending the Oakland Municipal Code. Proposition 218, enacted by the voters
of the State of California on November 5, 1996, created Article C of the
State Constitution, which governs imposition of general and special taxes. As
this measure would create a new category of business license tax, and impose a
higher rate than that currently imposed, it must be approved by two-thirds (2/3)
of the voters voting on the measure at the special election.

The proposed measure imposes a tax rate of 2.4 percent ($60 for the first
$2,500 or less of gross receipts, plus $24 per year for each additional $1,000 of
gross receipts or fractional part in excess of $2,500) on gross receipts from selling firearms or firearms ammunition or from any other activity which is subject
to tax under the provisions of this Article. The proposed tax will apply to all
gross receipts of any business which sells firearms or firearms ammunition. The
effect of this measure is to impose a higher rate of tax on all receipts of a business which chooses to engage in the sales of firearms and ammunition. However,
the measure does not apply to any business which is (1) engaged exclusively in
the sale of firearms and firearms ammunition to law enforcement agencies, or

(2)	to any business licensed as a pawnbroker pursuant to the Oakland Municipal
Code that (i) receives firearms or firearms ammunition as other security
or other form of compensation, or (ii) wholesales firearms or firearms ammunition exclusively to properly licensed and registered dealers.

The measure also amends the tax rate on businesses licensed and engaged in
wholesales, to provide that any business engaged in the wholesale of firearms
or firearms ammunition, shall pay the tax rate of 2.4 percent on its gross receipts
from wholesaling firearms or firearms ammunition.

As used in this measure, the term “firearm” means any device, designed to
be used as a weapon, from which is expelled through a barrel a projectile by the
force of any explosion, or other form of combustion. The term also includes any
rocket, rocket propelled projectile launcher, or similar device containing any
explosive or incendiary material and not designed for emergency or distress signaling purposes. The term “firearms ammunition” is defined to mean any projectiles with their fuses, propelling charges, or primers fired from weapons, and
any of the individual components thereof, including, but not limited to, black
powder and reloading primers.

The measure does not create any additional collection and enforcement structures, and will be enforced through existing procedures. The Director of
Finance is charged with collection and enforcement of the tax. An appeals
process is provided, as well as the imposition of penalties and interest on uncollected taxes. Failure to pay the Firearms Business License Tax would be a misdemeanor.

<impartialend>
