<impartial>

CITY OF OJAI
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS*

MEASURE "I”

This Measure, if adopted, would approve a rate adjustment in the Transient Occupancy Tax ('TOT') to ten percent (10%), which is the current rate
and was approved by the City Council in 1994. However, based on various
court rulings and the imposition of Propositions 62 and 218, it is now necessary to obtain voters' approval to tax rate increases.

This Measure would not impose a tax on Ojai’s residents or businesses. it would apply exclusively to tourists or transient occupants of hotels
(as defined in Section 8-1.404 of the Ojai Municipal Code) in the City of Ojai.
Such transients currently pay a ten percent (10%) tax and, therefore, this
Measure would not increase the existing tax rate.

The history of the TOT in Ojai dates back to its original inception in
October 1971. The ordinance, among other things, imposed a five percent
(5%) tax for the privilege of occupying a room or other living space in a
hotel, an inn, or a tourist home in the City, except where the occupancy was
for a period of more than thirty (30) days. In December 1975, the rate
was adjusted to six percent (6%), in April 1985, it was again adjusted to
eight percent (8%) and, in August 1994, the tax was increased to its current
rate of ten percent (10%). By way of reference, the neighboring cities of
Santa Barbara and Ventura have a 10% TOT which is the typical rate in
California. A number of cities, including Palm Springs, Pasadena and San
Francisco, have higher rates.

Under existing law, certain exemptions from the TOT are provided for
state and federal employees on governmental business and persons who
are not transient, as required by law. Further, the TOT sets forth the duties
of hotel operators, including registration, record keeping, reporting and remittance of the tax to the City. There are also enforcement remedies that include penalties, interest and audit procedures. Any operator aggrieved by
any decision of the City's tax administrator is provided with an appeal process.
These original policies and procedures will be unchanged by this Measure,
(See Article 4, Sections 8-1.401 through 8-1.441 of the Ojai Municipal
Code.) The only issue for consideration is the rate of the TOT.

The TOT is a general tax used to meet the City's obligations to the
community in the provision of current and future vital public services, including police, fire, storm drain and street maintenance, youth and recreation
programs, senior services, planning and growth management, and parks
and landscape maintenance, among other things.

The tax rate cannot exceed the maximum established by this Measure
without approval of a majority vote of the electors of the City of Ojai.

<impartialend>