<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “A”

Rancho Mirage has in the past lawfully assessed property in the City
to pay for maintenance and operation of its parks. This assessment was
known as the yearly Parkland Maintenance Assessment and was included as a part of the City-Wide Landscaping and Lighting District
Assessment.

Proposition 218, adopted by the California Voters on November 5,
1996, would prohibit Rancho Mirage from imposing such a Parkland
Maintenance Assessment. Proposition 218 would allow the City to impose a Special Tax to replace the Parkland Maintenance Assessment
provided it submits such Special Tax to the voters of Rancho Mirage for
their approval and receives a two-thirds vote of approval.

Measure "A" would impose a Special Tax to take the place of the
old Parkland Maintenance Assessment Such Special Tax would provide
for the payment of maintenance, operation and administration expenses
for the City’s three existing parks, Whitewater Park, The Cancer Survivors
Park and the Michael S. Wolfson Park and the maintenance expenses
for the planned Magnesia Falls Park.

Measure “A" would set a Maximum Special Tax Rate. The amount
of the Maximum Special Tax Rate would be $18.96 per unit per year on
single family residences and multi-family residences; $18.96 per acre per
year on recreational/golf course property; $9.48 per acre per year on
undeveloped property; and $48.35 per acre per year on commercial
property. This Maximum Special Tax Rate would automatically increase
each fiscal year by the percentage change in the consumer price index
for the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside area.

Measure “A” would not require the City to impose an assessment in
the amount of the Maximum Special Tax Rate. It would allow the City, by
majority vote of the City Council, to impose an Annual Special Tax Levy
which could not exceed the lower of either the amount of the actual
expenses determined to be reasonable and necessary to pay for the
maintenance, lighting, irrigation, operation and administration of the three
existing and one planned City Parks or the amount of the Maximum
Special Tax Rate. Funds collected pursuant to such Special Tax Levy
could only be used for such expenses.

Measure “A” provides that approval of a Annual Special Tax Levy
which did not exceed the Maximum Special Tax Rate could be approved
by a majority of the City Council and would not require two-thirds voter
approval. The City Council could not approve an Annual Special Tax Levy
which exceeded the Maximum Special Tax Rate unless two-thirds of the
Rancho Mirage voters approve such an increase.

The Annual Special Tax Levy authorized by Measure "A” would
constitute a lien on the property assessed until paid in the same manner
as general property tax and would be similarly entered upon the tax rolls
and collected by the Riverside County tax collector. Delinquency In
payment would result in the imposition of penalties, interest and costs.

<impartialend>