<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Parlier Ordinance No. 98-03 was enacted by the Parlier City Council on March 3,1998. Ordinance No.
98-03 enacts new Chapter 3.28 of the Parlier Municipal Code establishing a Special Utility Users Tax to
pay for police and fire services, subject to approval by the voters.

The Special Utility Users Tax imposes a six (6%) percent tax on telephone, electricity, gas, and sewer
and water service utility charges. Taxes are to be collected by the utilities providing these services with
their regular bills to their customers. There are special procedures for collecting the Utility Users Tax
from the users of gas or electricity who are not billed for such services by a utility provider.

As a special tax, Ordinance No. 98-03 is subject to approval by a two-thirds (2/3rds) vote of the electors
of the CITY OF PARLIER at the State Primary Election on June 2,1998. If the tax is approved by the
voters, the tax will go into effect as of July 1,1998. The tax will automatically terminate in ten (10) years, on June 30,2008. The tax may be used only to pay for police and fire services in the CITY OF PARLIER, and for no other purpose.

Ordinance No. 98-03 includes a provision for exempting very low income, senior citizen households
from the tax. “Very low income” households means households in which the combined gross income
does not exceed fifty (50%) percent of the Fresno County median income for families that size.
Exemptions must be reapplied for each year in which the applicant seeks an exemption. The maximum
total Utility Users Tax is $10,000 per year.

Taxes will be collected by utility service providers and remitted directly to the City. There are provisions
requiring the reporting and remitting of taxes to the City and penalties for failing to collect or remit taxes
as required in the ordinance. There are administrative remedies and a penalty of 25% for failing to pay
taxes, with the right to appeal to the City Council. The Ordinance requires persons who collect and remit
taxes to the City to keep records of their collection and remittance activities, with the Tax Administrator
having the right to inspect such records. There is a provision authorizing tax refunds where taxes were mistakenly or illegally paid, where the claimant is exempt from the payment of taxes, or where the claimant overpaid taxes.

<impartialend>