<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This proposition asks City voters to consider approving a special City tax for Vista’s use of the
800 MHZ Regional Communications System for police, fire and other safety services. The special
tax ordinance authorizes the City Council to levy an annual tax on real property until the ordinance
“sunsets” after 20 years. This tax replaces Vista’s Zone I property tax for County Service Area 135
from 1995 to 1997, which is no longer levied because of Proposition 218.

Annual tax revenues are restricted to the City’s actual costs for use of the Regional System.
Such costs can include only: (1) equipment used by police, fire, and safety services equipment to
communicate with the Regional System; (2) annual charges upon the City for use of the System;
and (3) election costs.

Each property will be assessed a certain number of “benefit units”, based on property use. For
example, each single family home is assessed 7 benefit units, each mobilehome is assessed 4
benefit units, each professional office or commercial establishment is assessed 16 benefit units,
and each developed industrial parcel is assessed 20 benefit units. The ordinance also establishes
maximum tax rates. The maximum tax rate for local costs is $0.69 for each benefit unit. This tax rate
may be adjusted each year by the percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index.

The first year’s maximum tax is $4.83 on a single family home and $2.76 on a mobilehome.
Actual taxes will be less if the City Council uses other funds to pay all or part of the local equipment
costs. The City Council has stated it will pay the local equipment costs from budget reserves.

Proposition C, appearing elsewhere on this ballot, is a special tax measure for the entire County
Service Area 135 (including all of the County’s unincorporated area, Vista, and nine other cities).
If approved, Proposition C taxes will be used to pay the “backbone” costs of the Regional System,
including Vista's share of these “backbone” costs. If Proposition C is NOT approved, Vista will be
charged approximately $163,000 annually for these “backbone” costs under the Regional
Communications System agreement.

If Proposition C is NOT approved, this ordinance also authorizes the City Council to levy a
supplemental tax to pay for Vista’s share of the regional “backbone" costs. The supplemental tax
rate cannot exceed $0.86 per benefit unit. If Proposition C is NOT approved and this ordinance IS
approved, the first year’s maximum total tax is $10.85 on a single family home and $6.20 on a
mobilehome. The actual tax will be less if the City pays all or part of the local equipment costs from
other sources. However, if Proposition C is approved, this supplemental tax cannot be levied by
the City.

A “YES” vote means you are FOR APPROVAL of the special tax ordinance.

A “NO” vote means you are AGAINST APPROVAL of the special tax ordinance.

<impartialend>