<impartial>

CITY OF MOORPARK
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

MEASURE "G"

If enacted, Measure G would adopt an Ordinance to add Chapter 3.30,
entitled “Open Space Acquisition Special Tax", to The Moorpark Municipal
Code. The Ordinance provides that the special tax may be levied annually
for a period of ten years and that the revenues can be used only for real
property acquisition purposes.

Under the Ordinance, the maximum tax rates are $79.80 per single
family residence; $59.85 per mobile home or multi-family residence;

$116.51 per parcel used for petroleum/gas or auto/sales/repair; $232.22 per
parcel used for agriculture or a theater; $348.73 per parcel used for single
story retail store(s) or office(s), bank/savings and loan, industrial condo/co-op/PUD,mineral processing, service station or restaurant/cocktail lounge; $465.23
per parcel used for warehousing; $697.45 per parcel used for multi-story
retail store(s) or office(s); $1161.89 per parcel used for a neighborhood
shopping center; $1394.90 per parcel used for light manufacturing; and
$3486.46 per parcel used for a regional shopping center.

The Ordinance also contains a number of provisions governing the
special tax:

•	The revenue received from the tax would be placed in a special
fund and would have to be used exclusively to acquire and
maintain real property and pay for administration of the special tax.
The real property that is acquired could be in the City or in the
City’s “Area of Interest" as shown in the City’s General Plan as of
June 30,1998.

•	Real property acquired with money from the special fund could be
sold at a future time as long as the proceeds of the sale were used
to acquire other real property.

•	The tax could only be levied for ten years, commencing with fiscal
year 1999-2000 and ending with fiscal year 2008-2009.

•	During the ten year period, the tax would be levied annually by the
City Council. The levy could not exceed the maximum rates
established by the Ordinance, but the City Council could levy the
tax at rates that are lower than those set forth in the Ordinance.

•	The tax would be collected through the property tax bill in the same
manner as other charges and taxes collected by the City or by the
County on behalf of the City.

•	The tax rates set forth in the Ordinance could not be increased and
the ten year limit on the tax could not be extended, except by a vote
of the electorate.

To be adopted, Measure G must be approved by 2/3 of the voters
voting at the general election.

A "yes" vote on Measure G favors levying a special tax to be used to
acquire and maintain real property.

A “no” vote on Measure G opposes levying a special tax to be used to
acquire and maintain real property.

<impartialend>