<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

The California Constitution authorizes an increase in taxes if approved
by the electorate, A special tax, which requires a 2/3 voter approval, is a tax that is
designated for a particular purpose and must be used for that specific purpose.

The City of San Mateo proposes to add Section 3.56.035 to its Municipal Code to increase its existing Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax from
8% - 10%. The Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax is imposed on persons
who rent rooms for a period of thirty days or less. The hotel operator is
obligated to collect the tax and remit it to the City. If the tax is not timely
and properly remitted, interest and penalties may be imposed.

The 2% increase is designated for City capital improvements, including
police and fire facilities as a priority expenditure, and also for street and side-
walk improvements, parks, and other City buildings and facilities. The priority expenditure for police and fire facilities is for designated improvements that are listed in the ordinance; the designated improvements include seismic upgrading, gender modifications, disability modifications,
functional improvements, and a 7500 sq. ft, addition, as well as remodel-
ing to the Police building. The priority requirement exists until the designated police and fire facilities are complete at which time police and fire
facilities will have no greater legal priority than other City capital improvements, The City Council can determine in its judgment when the
police and fire facility priorities have been met.

A May 1998 study done for the City discloses that most jurisdictions
surrounding the City of San Mateo currently have a 10% tax. The study
further reveals that the 2% increase is expected to yield additional tax
revenue in 1999-2000 of $600,000 - $900,000, depending on whether the
anticipated new hotels in the City are on-line. This increase in hotel tax revenues, if used to issue bonds for capital improvements, is expected to
fund $ 11.4 million in bonds.

The City’s long-term capital needs for existing facilities such as streets
and sidewalks, parks and recreation, public safety improvements, etc. have
been estimated by City Staff at $60 million.

If the measure is approved, the City of San Mateo Municipal Code
will be amended and the hotel transient occupancy tax will increase
effective January 1, 1999.

<impartialend>