<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE P

This measure would authorize amendment of the San Rafael Municipal
Code to increase the maximum rate of the City’s Paramedic Tax on
residential and non-residential structures. The total increase could not
exceed $13.00 per unit for residential structures, and $.02 per square-
foot for non-residential structures. Currently, the maximum Paramedic
Tax rate is $40.00 per unit for residential structures and $.05 per square-
foot (with a $2,500.00 flat-tax maximum) for non-residential structures.
This measure does not automatically raise the Paramedic Tax to the
maximum levels authorized. Rather, each year, the City Council is
required to set the tax level after reviewing actual costs of the Paramedic
Services program during its budget process. The City Council could, but
need not, increase the tax if, and only if, the Paramedic Services
program costs exceed the Paramedic Tax revenue, and the Council
could only increase the tax to that level necessary to fully fund the costs
of the Paramedic Services program.

This measure would increase the maximum Paramedic Tax rate from
$40.00 to $53.00 per unit for residential structures and from $.05 per
square-foot to $.07 per square-foot for non-residential structures. This
measure would eliminate the flat-tax limit provision currently applicable
to the tax on non-residential structures. This measure would also
increase the appropriations limit for the City of San Rafael for three (3)
years by the total amount collected under this tax so as to enable the
City to expend the money collected, as authorized by Article XIII B of the
California Constitution.

This measure prohibits the City Council from setting the Paramedic
Tax rate above the limits authorized. This measure prohibits the City
Council from expending any of the tax revenue collected under it for any
purpose other than the San Rafael Paramedic Services program. This
measure retains the current requirement that the City Council attempt to
maintain parity between the tax rate for residential structures and that for
non-residential structures.

The ordinance amendment proposed by this measure will be adopted
if approved by a two-thirds majority of those electors voting on the
measure.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>