<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “W”

Measure “W” is an ADVISORY MEASURE submitted	to the voters of

the City of Palm Springs concerning a Utility User's Tax (“Tax”). As an advisory measure, the City Council of the City of Palm	 Springs is not bound by the results of the election. Your “yes” vote on this Measure “W" means that you would like the City Council to continue collection of the Tax at that rate. 

Since August 4,1993, the City Council has collected a Utility User’s
Tax on telephone, electric, gas, and co-generated electric service at the
rate of 5% of the charges made for each of those services except that
from September 1998 to the present the City Council unilaterally reduced
the rate to 4,5%, The Tax is payable by the resident® using the services
and is collected through the utility company.

The ordinance by which the City Council adopted and set the Tax
has no “sunset clause.” In advisory elections on June 7, 1994 and
November 4,1997, the voters voted to continue the Utility Users Tax for
3 years and then to extend it for another 2 years. The current advisory-
measure does not contain any expiration date.

The existing ordinance contains limitations on what and who it
applies to. No changes are proposed, and current exemptions would be
maintained.

As this Measure does not fix a specific tax rate, the difficult to determine. The City Finance Department has estimated that with the above exemptions, the revenues from the Tax will generate approximately $800,000 per 1% of the Tax during each fiscal year. Therefore, the Tax would generate $4,000,000 in each fiscal Council sets the rate at 5%.

This is a general tax, and the	 money is held in the City’s general fund for operational expenses. If the taxes were designed for a specific purpose, then, under Proposition 13, they could become special taxes and would require a two-thirds vote of the electorate. Proposition 62 makes general taxes subject to a majority vote of the electorate. Although the California Supreme Court in 1995 in Santa Clara v. Guarding held Proposition 62 to be constitutional, the City’s Utility User’s Tax predates this ruling. Litigation is now pending on the retroactivity of the Supreme Court ruling, and the law is unsettled.

Proposition 218, adopted in November 1996, is also being litigated. Proposition 218 does not apply to taxes in effect prior to January 1, 1995, as was the City’s Utility User’s Tax. Accordingly, the City Council may continue the Tax, free from the restrictions of Proposition 218, so long as it does not increase the Tax. 

If the voters do not pass this Advisory Measure, the City Council can continue the Tax since the Measure is only advisory. Any change in the Tax would occur only if enacted by the City Council. 

<impartialend>