<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “J"

I.	Measure “J"

Measure “J” proposes the adoption of an ordinance (“ordinance”)
that dissolves the existing Community Services District (“CSD”) and
institutes a ten-year special community services tax (“special tax”)
on real property, commencing July 1,2000.

II.	Ordinance

The ordinance is intended to replace the CSD assessment levies
with special taxes that will continue to partially fund, at their existing
levels, certain described law enforcement services, anti-gang
programs, landscape, parks and recreation programs and services,
blow sand control services, street lighting and traffic signal
programs and services, and street sweeping services. In addition,
the special tax revenue (“revenue”) may be used to pay for certain
administrative costs which are directly related to the above
programs and services.

The ordinance requires the revenue to be placed into separate
accounts for each of the subject community services. The ordinance
also prohibits the City from using the revenue for any purpose not
described in the ordinance unless any such proposed use is
presented to the voters for their approval.

The ordinance establishes tax amounts that are approximately
equivalent to the current levies imposed under the CSD, The
ordinance, however, permits the tax amounts to be annually adjusted for inflation at either three percent (3%) or the cost of living
increase set forth in the Consumer Price Index, whichever is less)
Any other proposed increases must be presented to the voters for
their approval.

The special tax assessment and tax collection duties will be the
responsibility of the assessor arid tax collector of the County of
Riverside, and the special tax will be due in two equal installments in
accordance with the schedule utilized by the assessor and tax
collector of the County of Riverside.

Parcels exempt from the special tax will include those parcels
owned by the City, the federal government, the state, and any other
public agency and parcels owned by any entity .specifically exempt
from local property taxation regulations under any applicable law or
regulation. In addition, all vacant, undeveloped parcels north of
Interstate 10 will be exempt from the special tax uni such time as a
development entitlement for the subject parcel is issued by the City.

The ordinance authorizes the City Council to reduce the amount of
any particular special tax if it is determined that the revenue
produced by the subject special tax exceeds the cost of the r
five community service and to sit as a Board of Equalization
equalize inequities and reduce hardships on a case-by-case

Finally, the special fax will take effect only if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the Cathedral City voters voting in the election vote yes. 

If Measure “J” is not passed by the voters the
special tax will not be imposed.  


<impartialend>