<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE O
CITY OF COSTA MESA

Measure O is a proposition submitted to the voters by the Costa Mesa
City Council to provide funding for the acquisition and development of
parks, recreation facilities and open space in the City.

Background. The City of Costa Mesa currently has in place a six percent
Transient Occupancy Tax ("TOT”). The TOT is paid by transients as that
term is defined in the City's municipal code ("Transients All funds from the
current TOT are allocated to the City’s general fund and can be expended
for the general use and benefit of the City. In January 2000, the Costa Mesa
City Council adopted a Community Objective to consider increasing the
current TOT by two percentage points. This additional tax would also only
be paid by Transients, but would be a special tax and placed in a special
fund to be dedicated solely for the acquisition and development of parks,
recreation facilities and open space for use by the general public.

Adoption of the Measure. If approved by the voters, Measure O would:

1.	Authorize the City Council of the City of,'Costa Mesa to implement, by
separate resolution, an increase in the current Transient Occupancy Tax
up to, but not to exceed, two additional percentage points.

2.	Mandate the use of revenue from any increase in the TOT authorized by
this measure solely for the acquisition and/or development of land for
parks, recreation facilities and open space as that term is defined in the
ordinance.

3.	Specifically prohibits revenues authorized by this measure to be used for
maintenance, repair or operation of such facilities.

Measure O also specifies that the tax is a special tax and is therefore
effective only if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the Measure.
Measure O does not make any other substantive changes to the existing
TOT ordinance and all rules and regulations applicable to the existing TOT
would apply to any increase authorized by the voters of the City of Costa
Mesa.

<impartialend>