<impartial>

MEASURE “L”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

In 1982, the voters of the City of Redlands approved an ordinance authorizing
the levy of a special tax by the Redlands City Council to fund a paramedic services
program within the City. The maximum amounts of special tax differ for single family
residences, multifamily units, mobile homes, condominiums, and commercial and
industrial properties. The maximum annual amount of special taxes that presently may
be levied to fund the paramedic program are $30 for multifamily units and mobilehomes,
$40 for single family residences, and $160, plus $40 for each 20,000 square foot
increment of building floor area which is in excess of 39,999 square feet of floor area,
for commercial and industrial buildings.

Ordinance No. 2448 would increase the amounts of special taxes that may be
levied by the Redlands City Council for continued funding of the paramedic services
program. Ordinance No. 2448, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, will authorize the Redlands City Council beginning in fiscal year 2001-02 to
increase the special taxes which may be levied to fund paramedic services to the
maximum annual amounts of $52.50 for multifamily units and mobilehomes, $70 for
single family residences, and $280, plus $70 for each 20,000 square foot increment of
building floor area which is in excess of 39,999 square feet of floor area, for commercial
and industrial buildings. In addition, Ordinance No. 2448 would authorize the Redlands
City Council to levy an additional annual special tax of $150 per paramedic unit
response upon any non-residential property for any response that is in excess of ten
paramedic unit responses to that property in any consecutive 12 month period. All of
the maximum amounts of special taxes authorized to be levied by Ordinance No. 2448
would also be automatically increased, each year, by an amount equal to the increase
in the Consumer Price Index - Los Angeles - Anaheim - Riverside area.

The specific amounts of the special taxes for each type of development within the
City would be established annually by resolution of the Redlands City Council and
would be collected by the San Bernardino County tax collector. The special taxes
collected pursuant to Ordinance No. 2448 will be placed in a special account, not in the
City’s General Fund, and may only be expended to fund the City’s paramedic services
program.

<impartialend>