<impartial>

MEASURE “J”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

On February 2, 2000, the City Council of the City of Rancho Cucamonga
formed City of Rancho Cucamonga Community Facilities District No. 99-1 (the
“District”) pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982
(Government Code Section 53311 and following). The District was formed to pay
for facilities and services that are part of the proposed Central Park project, to be
located on the north side of Base Line Road from Milliken Avenue west to Deer
Creek Channel.

Measure “J” has three components:

First, Measure “J” would determine whether the District may issue up to $30
million in bonds, at an interest rate and for a term not to exceed the maximum
rate and term permitted by law at the time the bonds are issued. The bonds
would be used to finance the facilities described in Resolution No. 00-016 of the
City Council of the City of Rancho Cucamonga, including lakes, an arboretum,
group picnic areas, an entertainment pavilion, trails, play areas (including an off-
leash dog area), an aquatic complex, a tennis complex, a grounds maintenance
facility, and if funding allows, a gymnasium.

Second, Measure “J” would determine whether the District may levy a
special tax at a rate not to exceed $129.00 per parcel to pay for the facilities
described above, including principal and interest due on bonds; related services
(e.g., recreation program services and the maintenance of parks, parkways and
open space); and incidental expenses. The tax is to be levied on all parcels
within the District, except for certain exempt parcels (e.g., publicly-owned
parcels). The special tax for facilities and related incidental expenses may be
levied only until the 2035-36 fiscal year; however, the special tax for services and
related incidental expenses may be continued beyond that date, so long as the
tax is required to pay for such services.

Finally, Measure “J” would establish an appropriations limit for the District
pursuant to Article XII IB of the California Constitution. The amount of this limit
would equal the proceeds of the special tax collected, with adjustments for
changes in the cost of living and changes in the population of the District.

A “Yes” vote on this Measure is a vote in support of the issuance of bonds by
the District, the levy of a special tax within the District, and the establishment of
an appropriations limit for the District.

A “No” vote on this Measure is a vote against the issuance of bonds by the
District, the levy of a special tax within the District, and the establishment of an
appropriations limit for the District.

<impartialend>