<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

In 1978, the City of Berkeley enacted Chapter 9.04 of the Municipal Code,
establishing a comprehensive Business License Tax system. Under the
Business License Tax Ordinance (“Ordinance”), different categories of businesses are taxed at different rates based upon their gross receipts. Thus, under
the Ordinance, businesses in the categories of "business, personal, and repair
services are taxed at one rate. In contrast, businesses in the categories of “professional - semi-professional” pay a higher rate, currently twice the rate of the
business, personal and repair services category. In the original Ordinance, the
category of professional - semi-professional businesses included persons providing health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-architectural-surveying, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and any other unclassified service
providers.

However, in 1990, the City Council amended the Ordinance in order to take
advantage of a legal ruling permitting municipalities to impose a business license
tax on certain types of savings and loan institutions. In the course of amending
the Ordinance, an additional amendment was made which resulted in reclassifying persons providing health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-architectural-surveying, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and any other unclassified
service providers, as business, personal and repair services. As a result, businesses within these categories enjoyed a 50% reduction in their Business License
Tax rates. In a report regarding the Business License Tax Audit Program, the City
Auditor concluded that the 1990 rate reduction was made in error.

If approved by a majority of the voters, this Ordinance would restore the pre 
1990 classification of professional - semi-professional businesses which
includes persons providing health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-architectural-surveying, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and any other unclassified service providers. Under the current rate structure, this measure would
result in such businesses being taxed the rate of $3.60 for every $1,000 in gross receipts. The business license tax rate for other categories of businesses would
not change.

<impartialend>