

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “E"

By Resolution No. 2000-04 the City Council of the City of Desert Hot

Springs (the “City”) submits for voter approval a measure approving an
ordinance instituting a ten-year public safety services non ad valorem
special tax on real property in the City (the “Parcel Tax”).

The Parcel Tax is a special tax. Proceeds of the Parcel Tax will not
be placed into the general fund but into a separate public safety services
account, which will be used to fund police, fire, code enforcement and
animal control services. Proceeds will also be used to pay administrative
costs directly related to such services and tax collection costs. The
ordinance instituting the Parcel Tax prohibits the City from using Parcel
Tax revenues for any purpose not described in the ordinance unless any
such proposed use is presented to the voters for their approval. The
Parcel Tax has an expiration date of June 30,2010,

The cost of maintaining the Police Department, including police
salaries, vehicles and equipment, is approximately $1,650,000. Fire
protection services are provided by the Riverside County Fire Department pursuant to a cooperative agreement with the City at an approximate annual cost of $385,000. The annual cost of providing code
enforcement services and animal control services is approximately
$50,000 and $140,000, respectively.

The City has, been experiencing a financial crisis for the prior four
fiscal years and continues to be undergoing a financial crisis, with an
expected general fund balance cumulative deficit of over $2,200,000 for
fiscal year 2000-2001. The City Council of the City has, concurrently with
the Parcel Tax measure, submitted for voter approval a utility users tax.
Even if the utility users tax is approved by the voters, an estimated reduction of $700,000 in City costs and services, including public safety
services, will be required if the Parcel Tax is not also approved by the
voters.

If the Parcel Tax is approved, the City expects to collect approximately $1,600,000 the first year the tax is in effect. The amount of the
Parcel Tax may be adjusted annually by the cost of living increase represented in the Consumer Price Index or 3%, whichever is less. All
proposed increases must be presented to the voters for their approval.
The ordinance authorizes the City Council to reduce the amount of
Parcel Tax in a given fiscal year if it determines that the revenue
produced by the Parcel Tax exceeds the cost of public safety services for
that fiscal year.

The Parcel Tax will take effect only if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
City voters voting in the election vote “yes” on Measure E.

