<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

BACKGROUND

The streets and roadways in the City of San Joaquin are bumpy and filled with potholes and patches.
Many of the streets and roadways, curbs, gutters, storm drains, sewers, and sidewalks in the City of
San Joaquin have outlived their useful lives and are in need of repair or replacement. The City has
looked for grants or other sources of funding to make the needed repairs and replacements. No grants
are presently available or proposed for the purpose of repairing or replacing these public
improvements.

Ultimately, the responsibility for funding the maintenance and repair of local City streets lies with the
residents of the City of San Joaquin. The City has also reviewed its budgets and determined that
current demands upon the City’s revenues will only provide funds to make temporary repairs. The City
Engineer has studied the problem and estimated that the cost of repairs will be 3.5 Million Dollars
($3,500,000). If the repairs were divided into 10 projects, with one project built every other year, the
average cost per year would be $175,000.

PROPOSAL

California law permits the voters of a City to impose on themselves a tax for a special purpose if two
thirds or more of the voters voting in an election vote for the tax. The City has proposed that voters
approve a Utility User’s Tax of ten percent (10%) on their usage of telephone, electricity, manufactured
or natural gas or hydrocarbon fuel, water, and cable television. In 1998, the total amount of billings
within the City of San Joaquin for these utilities was $1,835,741. A Utility User’s Tax of 10% would
have provided revenues of $183,574 from 1998 utility billings, or approximately one twentieth of the
amount the City Engineer estimates will be needed to make necessary repairs.

Revenues from the Utility User’s Tax would go into a special fund and be used exclusively for the
purposes of construction costs, engineering and administrative costs of reconstructing, repaving and
repairing streets and public ways within the City, and for repair of public facilities within or related to
the public ways, including, but not limited to, repair or replacement of curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
driveway approaches, storm drains and sewers.

The Utility User’s Tax would be computed by each of the affected utility providers at the rate of 10% of
each utility bill, and collected with each utility bill. The utility providers will pay the collected taxes to
the City’s special Utility User’s Tax fund to be used only for the purposes specified above. If two thirds
of the voters voting in the election approve this measure, the Utility User’s Tax will become effective for
bills sent 30 days after the City Council declares the voters have approved the tax, and the Utility User's
Tax will continue at the approved rate for 20 years.

<impartialend>
