IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF ARCATA
MEASURE P

Measure P asks the voters whether the City of Arcata should
adopt a utility users tax. The tax would be imposed for four years
at the rate of three percent (3%) of the usage of the following utility
services: (1) Intrastate telephone communication services billed to
an account located within the City’s boundaries; (2) Electrical energy
services supplied by an electric corporation or non-utility supplier
and used within the City’s boundaries; (3) Gas services supplied
by a gas corporation or non-utility supplier which is transported
either through pipes or by mobile transport and used within the
City’s boundaries; (4) Water services supplied by the City to a user
located within the City’s boundaries; (5) Wastewater collection
services provided by the City’s wastewater collection system; and

(6)	Cable television services used within the City’s boundaries.

Numerous exemptions to the tax are expressly provided upon
adequate proof to the Tax Administrator. First, persons who receive
Low Income Rate Assistance (“LIRA”) from a gas or electrical
corporation would be exempt from the tax on gas or electrical utility
usage. Second, persons who receive “Universal Lifeline Service”
from a telephone corporation would be exempt from paying the tax
on basic telephone services. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt additional classes of persons or
utilities. Finally, the tax would not be levied against persons or
entities exempt by law including local governmental agencies, public
schools and Humboldt State University.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider.
For each type of utility service taxed, taxation would be limited to
a maximum of $1,000.00 per fiscal year, upon adequate proof to
the Tax Administrator that taxes will reach or exceed the $1,000.00
maximum year for a particular utility.

The utility users tax is a general tax and all revenue generated
by the tax would go to the City’s general fund to fund essential
governmental services including, but not limited to, police, public
works, parks and recreation and other essential government services
provided by the City. It is estimated that the tax will generate
approximately $500,000.00 of the City’s general fund budget of
$5,282,860.00 dollars for fiscal year 2000-2001.

The tax as proposed in Measure P is identical to the present
utility users tax, adopted by the voters in 1996, which expires on
November 30, 2000. Voter approval of this Measure would adopt
a new utility users tax as described above, effective December 1,
2000. The new utility users tax would then terminate automatically
on November 30, 2004, four years after its adoption. This Measure
must be approved by a majority of the voters.

<impartialend>