

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

SUMMARY

This measure will add Chapter 2.34, entitled the "City of Vista Taxpayer Protection Amendment
of 2000", to the Vista Municipal Code. This measure prohibits "city officials" who have voted for. or
approved a "public benefit” (as defined below) from receiving any campaign contributions of any
amount, gifts or honoraria over $50, or any paid employment, from any recipient of a “public
benefit".

A “public benefit" includes approval or award of any contract, benefit, or arrangement between
the city and any "person or entity” having a value more than $25,000 for personal services, the
purchase or sale of goods, supplies or equipment, the purchase, sale or lease of real property, an
exclusive franchise, or zoning variances, special use permits, or other exceptions to the city’s
general plan or zoning regulations. Also included are grants of public funds greater than $10,000,
or any tax relief greater than $5,000.

A “person or entity” includes an individual, business firm, partnership or corporation, including
any person having a 10% equity interest in the entity and every trustee, director, partner, or officer
of the entity.

"City officials” include all elected and appointed officials serving in their official capacities, and
their deputies. Among these are elected city council members, the appointed city manager and
staff members, and volunteer commissioners and board members.

This prohibition is imposed for a period of five years from the date the official approves or votes
in favor of the public benefit, or one year after the term of office expires or the official leaves office,
whichever is first.

City officials must maintain lists of names of all entities and persons who have received a “public
benefit” and produce such lists upon demand of any person. The city must notify everyone doing
business with the city of the requirements of the measure.

Any willful, knowing violation of the measure is a misdemeanor, subject to both six months
imprisonment and a $1,000 fine. Any resident may allege a violation and file a lawsuit against an
official. If successful, the resident may be awarded attorneys fees and costs, plus 10% of the civil
penalty imposed on the official. Unintentional violations are subject to full restitution and civil
penalties up to five times the value of the illegal advantage received by the official.

EFFECT ON EXISTING LAW

This measure imposes additional new requirements and will not affect or change any existing
requirements or prohibitions already imposed on city officials by the California Political Reform Act.

OPERATION OF MEASURE

The City Manager has estimated additional costs to the city for record keeping under this
measure will be in excess of $100,000 per year. Because of its unique prohibitions, the measure
also is expected to have a chilling effect on business relationships between the city and local
businesses wanting to retain participation in local election campaigns, discourage citizens from
seeking office or serving on volunteer commissions and boards, and make recruitment of qualified
employees more difficult.

