<impartial>	

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

Through Measure A, the Council seeks to renovate the Swim Center and designated park
clubhouses and establish a dedicated fund for the maintenance and replacement of city capital facilities. If approved by two-thirds of the voters, the Swim Center arid clubhouse renovations will be
accomplished through a special tax in the maximum, yearly amount of $58.46 on single-family homes
and comparable amounts on multifamily and nonresidential property. The dedicated Maintenance and
Capitol facilities Fund will be financed through annual contributions from the City general fund and
may only be used for the maintenance and replacement of city capital facilities.

The Swim Center was constructed 37 years ago. It no longer complies with health and safety
standards. Its components, including the locker room, pool decks and pump room, are deteriorating.
A community process was initiated to develop a master plan for the Swim' Center. It includes an
enlarged swimming pool, a new swim center building, new locker rooms and other improvements. The
master plan has been approved by the Park and Recreation Commission, the Committee of the Whole
and the City Council.

Canyon Trail Clubhouse was constructed in the 1960's. It was. dosed because of seismic safety
concerns. Once renovated, Canyon Trail Clubhouse will be utilized as an arts center providing classes
in such areas as drawing, ceramics and photography. It also will be used for recreational and

educational programs.

Restrooms at Harding, Huber and Poinsett parks were closed because they did not. meet certain
legal requirements. They will be rehabilitated so that park patrons again have restrooms at their

disposal.

These renovations cost $5.31. million to provide these funds. Measure A imposes a special
annual tax m the maximum amount of $58.46 for single-family homes, $45.00 for multifamily units
and $410 per acre on nonresidential property. Tax payments will continue for up to 20 years and will
be collected with the property tax. Low income senior citizens, blind or disabled persons may be
entitled to financial assistance in paying the tax.

Tax proceeds may be used only for the renovation programs identified above. The tax may not
be increased without a vote. A grant and contribution program will be implemented. Monies received
in grants and contributions shall be used to reduce the tax amount or the term of the tax. A dedicated
fund will be established for maintenance and reconstruction of the Swim Center and clubhouses.

In addition, the City shall establish a dedicated Maintenance and Capital Replacement Fund.
This fund will be financed by yearly contributions from the general fund, indexed by the amount net
revenues from the real property transfer tax exceed the sum of $250,000. Monies in the fund may
come from sales tax, property tax, or any other available funds. Fund proceeds shall be devoted
exclusively to the maintenance and replacement of City capital facilities. Monies in the fund may not
be used for any other purpose without a vote of the people.

<impartialend>