<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

The purpose of this measure is to adopt an ordinance revising the existing
business license tax imposed on lodging service businesses, such as hotels and
motels, in the City of Emeryville. The increased tax revenue will be utilized to
provide for general municipal services within the City of Emeryville. Under
Proposition 218, adopted by the voters of the State of California in 1996, proposed tax and fee increases must be placed on the ballot for voter approval.

Currently, the business license tax imposed on lodging service businesses is
eight-one hundredths of one percent (0.08%) of the gross receipts of the business, paid on an annual basis. Under the proposed ordinance, the business
license tax imposed on lodging service businesses, would be revised to (a)
twelve percent (12%) of the gross receipts of the, business attributable to rent
collected from customers of a lodging service business, excluding gross receipts
attributable to rent collected from a transient upon which the lodging service
business also collects from the transient and pays to the City of Emeryville a tax
in accordance with the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax Law of the City of
Emeryville, plus (b) eight-one hundredths of one percent (0.08%) of all other
gross receipts of the business, to be paid on a quarterly basis.

Simply put, lodging service businesses will be taxed at two rates: 12% as to
the rent collected by the hotel from its customers, excluding the rent collected
from customers referred to as transients (i.e. persons who stay at the hotel 30
days or less), as long as the hotel also collects from the transient and pays to the
City of Emeryville the existing hotel tax in accordance with the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax Law of the City of Emeryville; plus 0.08% as to all other
gross receipts. Accordingly, the proposed ordinance will result in a decrease in
business license tax for some lodging service businesses who limit their room
usage to transients, while resulting in an increase in business license tax for other
lodging service businesses whose customers stay longer than 30 days.

A YES vote will revise the business license tax imposed on lodging service
businesses to (a) twelve percent (12%) of the gross receipts of the business,
excluding gross receipts attributable to rent collected from a transient upon
which the lodging service business also collects from the transient and pays to
the City of Emeryville a tax in accordance with the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax Law of the City of Emeryville, plus (b) eight-one hundredths of one
percent (0.08%) of all other gross receipts of a lodging service business.

A NO vote will not revise the business license tax imposed on lodging service
businesses; however, the present business license tax imposed on lodging service
businesses, which is eight-one hundredths of one percent (0.08%) of the annual
gross receipts of the lodging service business, will remain in effect.

<impartialend>