<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “E”

Measure “E". presented to the voters of the City of Palm Springs
(“City”), if passed by a majority of the voters voting at the election, would
authorize the City Council to increase the Transient Occupancy Tax
(‘TOT") rate paid by hotel and timeshare guests. Your “yes" vote on
Measure “E" means the City Council could raise the TOT rate as specified. Your “no" vote means the current TOT rates would remain at current
levels.

The TOT, established by the City in 1967, applies only to guests who
stay at hotels (including a timeshare facilities) for less than 30 days. The
TOT charged to a guest is based on the room or unit rental cost and is
collected by the hotel at which the guest is staying. The TOT rate was
applied uniformly to all guests until 1992. In 1992, the rate charged
guests of Group Meeting Hotels was increased to 10.8%, while the rate
charged to guests of all other hotels remained at 10.0%. Group Meeting
Hotels are those with at least 125 rooms, meeting space to accommodate 125 people at one time, and personnel employed primarily for group-
sales. Some hotels that benefit from City promotional activities are also
deemed Group Meeting Hotels. Currently, there are 15 Group Meeting
Hotels in the City.

Approval of Measure “E” would authorize the City Council to
increase the TOT rate paid by guests at Group Meeting Hotels from the
current level of 10.8% to as high as 12.5%, and the TOT rate paid by
guests at all other hotels from the current rate of 10.0% to as high as
11.5%, This increase is estimated to generate SI.82 million annually to
the City. However, the increase would only occur if the City Council
adopted an enabling ordinance.

TOT rates vary by city. Some examples include La Quinta-11.0%,
Palm Desert-9.0%, Los Angeles-14.0%, and Anaheim-15.0%. The TOT
increase was proposed by a group of Palm Springs hoteliers. It is the
intent of this group that the City use the monies generated for an expansion of the Palm Springs Convention Center which it is said has lost a
number of convention groups because of inadequate space. It is
believed the TOT increase could finance an approximated $20 million
expansion of the Convention Center, increasing the existing 104,000
square toot facility by 70,000-100,000 square feet.

The City Council has not made any decision concerning use of the
TOT increase and as this is a genera! tax measure under Proposition
218, the tax revenue goes to the City's general fund. The City is not
required to spend the money on Convention Center expansion, but could
spend it for any general fund purpose.

As a general tax, this Measure “E” needs a majority vote to pass.
<impartialend>