<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

Ballot Measure N seeks ratification and re-adoption of the City’s existing 10%
golf tax. The golf tax is paid only by persons who play golf at privately owned
courses in the City and not by property owners.

In 1993, the City Council adopted an ordinance that imposed the existing golf
tax, which is 10% of the fees charged by a golf course operator to use a privately
owned golf course or driving range. If adopted, this Measure would constitute
formal approval by the voters of that golf tax.

Recent court decisions now forbid the City from continuing to impose the tax on
golfers without voter approval. However, these court decisions do not affect any
binding agreement between a golf course operator and the City that requires the
operator to pay the tax to the City on the golfers’ behalf.

Currently, there is only one golf course in the City where payment of the golf tax
is required. Payment of the golf tax to the City by that golf course operator is
guaranteed by a development agreement between the operator and the City.
That agreement will expire in 2007.

This Measure is being submitted to the voters by the Rancho Palos Verdes City
Council to allow the voters to ratify and approve the existing 10% golf tax. This
Measure also would re-adopt Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code Section
3.40.040, which currently imposes the 10% golf tax. Re-adoption of Section

3.40.040	would allow the City to continue to collect the tax at the 10% rate in the
future, even without a binding agreement between the City and a golf course
operator that requires the operator to pay the tax. Re-adoption of that Section
also would enable the City Council to reduce the tax, and to adjust the tax to any
rate that is less than or equal to 10%, without further voter approval.

If adopted, this Measure would not allow the City Council to increase the rate of
the golf tax in excess of 10% without voter approval.

A “yes” vote on Measure N enacts an ordinance ratifying and re-adopting the
City’s existing 10% golf tax. A “no” vote will result in the tax no longer being
collected at any privately owned golf course unless there is a binding agreement
between the operator and the City that guarantees the payment of the tax to the
City.

<impartialend>