<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF SUISUN CITY
MEASURE U

The City Council of the City of Suisun City has placed Measure U on the ballot to ask
voters to approve a special tax to provide funding for the City’s police and fire protection
services. Voter approval of the Measure is required by Proposition 218, a statewide initiative
approved by the voters in November 1996.

The City has its own police and fire departments to provide public safety services to its
residents. Staffing of the fire department is provided by a combination of full-time employees
and volunteers. The police department consists of full-time employees. The City provides
equipment and stations for both departments.

The City has determined that the cost to maintain its current levels of police and fire
protection services, which were previously funded by expiring state and federal grants, and
to provide for necessary additional staffing and equipment, exceeds the amount of existing
revenues generated for those purposes. The City Council has adopted Ordinance No. 660,
which imposes a “police and fire protection services tax” subject to approval by the voters.

The special tax would be imposed on the owners of all property within the City for the
privilege of using and the use of the City’s police and fire protection services and on the
use and enjoyment of property. The owner of an improved single-family residence or
condominium would pay $51.00 per year. The owner of an improved multi-family property
would pay $45.00 per year for each multi-family unit. The owner of a commercial building
smaller than 10,000 square feet to which a single business license had been issued would
be required to pay $102.00 per year. If more than one business license had been issued
to that property, the owner would be required to pay $102.00 multiplied by the number of
business licenses. If the structure on the property were larger than 10,000 square feet, the
owner would be required to pay $0.02 per additional square foot. Owners of undeveloped
or vacant property that remains undeveloped or vacant for more than six months would be
required to pay a minimal tax of $25.00 per year, which would be adjusted if the property
became developed or occupied.

The special tax would be collected by the Solano County Tax Collector with the regular
property taxes collected by the County. If Measure U passes, the resulting revenue could
only be used for staffing and equipment for police and fire protection services. The amounts
approved will not be increased for inflation.

To comply with Proposition 218, the City Council enacted Ordinance No. 660, which sets
forth the type of tax, amount of the tax, exemptions, refunds, use of the proceeds and other
related matters. A copy of the ordinance is printed in the sample ballot.

The tax will not become effective unless Measure U is approved by two-thirds of those
voting at the election.

<impartialend>