<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Measure P - Paramedic/Fire Protection Special Tax

At its July 18, 2001 meeting, the City Council unanimously decided to submit to
the voters Measure P which would impose a special paramedic/fire protection tax
on properties in the City in the amounts set forth in the table below. The special
tax would pay for (i) the reconstruction of Fire Stations No. 2 and No. 3, (ii) the
increased staffing to add three fire paramedics, two fire engineers, and one fire
captain, and (iii) additional maintenance and operating costs for providing fire
protection services.

If two-thirds (2/3) of the voters approve Measure P, a special annual parcel tax
will be established and the monies collected shall be used by the City only as
provided above. Property owners will pay the amounts shown below beginning
with the 2002/2003 property tax year, and for the next twenty-five years. The
specific purpose of the tax is to supplement, not replace, the City’s general fund
budget for the fire department. If in any year the City’s general fund budget and
appropriations for fire protection services is less than 20% (This may be lowered
to 19% upon a four-fifths (4/5) vote of the City Council) of the City’s total
general fund budget, the special tax will not be levied for that fiscal year.
Measure P exempts property owners from the paramedic/fire protection tax who
(i) are religious, charitable or community service organizations which qualify for
other tax exemptions, (ii) are low-income, or (iii) qualify for the City’s utility
user’s life line program. Further, the special tax to be imposed on any property
owner over the age of 62 years will be 50% of the amount set forth in the table
below.

Property Classification	Annual Amount to be Paid
Parcel Improved with a Single Family Residential Dwelling Unit or Each Dwelling Unit in a Residential Condominium Project	$27.00
Parcel Improved with Two Residential Units, Not a Condominium Project $55.00
Parcel Improved with Three or More Residential Units, Not a Condominium Project	$120.00
Parcel which is 0.14 acres or less and Improved with a Non-Residential Building	$55.00
Parcel which is more than 0.14 acres and Improved with a Non-Residential Building	$250.00
Vacant Parcel	$27.00


The Annual tax rate may be increased pursuant to the consumer price index.

<impartialend>