<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

The City of San Bruno proposes to affirm Ordinance No. 1531 adopted by
the San Bruno City Council on July 22,1991. Ordinance No. 1531 amended
San Bruno Municipal Code Section 3.32.010, which imposes a Transient
Occupancy Tax on guests staying at any hotel or motel in the City of San
Bruno. Each transient or guest must pay a tax on the amount of rent charged
by the operator of the hotel or motel. Ordinance No. 1531 increased the
Transient Occupancy Tax from 8% to 10%.

At the time Ordinance No. 1531 was adopted, the widely accepted legal
opinion was that the tax increase did not require voter approval as
Proposition 62, which states that tax increases require voter approval, was
declared unconstitutional by the Court of Appeal. In 1995 the California
Supreme Court, in Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority v.
Guardino, upheld the validity of Proposition 62. After the Guardino
decision, the Court of Appeal ruled that the holding in Guardino applied to
taxes adopted prior to the Guardino decision, but that a three-year statute of
limitations applied. More recently, a California Supreme Court case decided
this year, Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association v. City of La Habra, held that
the collection of non-voter approved local taxes is a continuing violation, in
effect eliminating the three-year statute of limitations. In light of this recent
case, the continued collection of the Transient Occupancy Tax is vulnerable
to legal challenge. The City of San Bruno proposes to affirm and eliminate
any question as to the validity of the 2% tax increase in the Transient Occupancy
Tax, from 8% to 10%, that was enacted in 1991 pursuant to Ordinance No. 1531.

A general tax, such as the Transient Occupancy Tax, requires a majority
vote and is imposed for general governmental purposes, such as, but not limited
to: fire, general administrative, library, parks and recreation, and police services.

Several neighboring cities are placing a similar issue on the ballot. The
City’s annual revenue from the Transient Occupancy Tax is $1,550,000. The
2% increase from 8% to 10%, approved in 1991, amounts to approximately
$310,000 annually.

If the measure is approved, any question as to the validity of Ordinance
No. 1531, which increased the Transient Occupancy Tax from 8% to 10%,
will be eliminated.

<impartialend>