<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of Proposed Commercial
Parking Facility License Tax Ordinance

This initiative measure will amend Section 6.16.047 of the South San
Francisco Municipal Code. Section 6.16.047 relates to the commercial
parking facility business license tax, a tax that is paid only by the operator of
the commercial parking facility. A commercial parking facility is a privately
owned facility that charges a fee for parking or storage of vehicles. The com-
mercial parking facility tax does not apply to paid parking when that parking
is associated with the rental of a residential dwelling unit.

The proposed ordinance included in this initiative measure, if approved
by the voters, would confirm and continue in effect the current business
license tax for commercial parking facilities. The current business license
tax is set at eight percent of gross receipts for commercial parking
facilities within South San Francisco. The current rate of eight percent
has been in effect since 1993. If this measure were approved by the
voters, the operators of the commercial parking facilities would continue
to pay the same tax rate they have been paying since 1993.

The proposed ordinance included in the initiative measure is being
placed before the voters in response to a recent California Supreme Court
decision involving a different city that clarified the process necessary for
approving and confirming taxes previously imposed by cities. If this
initiative measure is not approved by the voters the commercial parking
facility business license tax will be reduced to a rate of four percent of the
gross receipts for the commercial parking facility.

The funds received by the commercial parking facility business license
tax are placed into the City’s General Fund to be used by the City for
general city purposes and services as approved by the City Council.

If this initiative measure were approved, voter approval would be
required to further amend or repeal the provisions approved by this
initiative measure.

<impartialend>