<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

As shown on the foregoing Sample Official Ballot, an election is being
held in Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 of the City of Belmont
(“CFD No. 2000-1") on March 6.2001. for the purpose of submitting to the
registered voters of CFD No. 2000-1 the question of whether or not the
City of Belmont shall issue and sell bonds of CFD No. 2000-1 in an amount
not to exceed $8,650,000 to finance the acquisition and construction of
capital improvements related to the City of Belmont library and to pay
costs of issuance of the bonds and levy special taxes to (i) pay debt service
on the bonds, (ii) pay for operation and maintenance costs of the library,
(iii) fund a reserve fund and (iv) pay for incidental expenses.

The bonds will bear interest at a rate or rates established at the time the
bonds are sold. The bonds will be sold in a single series and may be sold at
a fixed or variable interest rate, provided that such interest rate shall not
exceed the greater of 12 percent per annum or the maximum rate permitted
by any then applicable provision of law limiting the maximum interest rate
on the bonds. The City of Belmont expects to issue the bonds in an
aggregate principal amount of approximately $8,650,000 in 2002.

If the bonds are authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon
will be payable from the proceeds of a special tax (the “Special Tax”) levied
upon the taxable property in CFD No. 2000-1 in accordance with the Rate
and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax. as adopted by the City
Council, which is available at the City Clerk's office.

The following information regarding the Special Tax rates is given to
comply with Section 9400 to 9404 of the Elections Code. Such information
is based upon the best estimates and projections presently available from
official sources, but is subject to change.

The tax rate under the Rate and Method of Apportionment is not based on the
assessed valuation of land within CFD No. 2000-1. The actual amount of the
Special Tax that will be levied to repay the bonds is dependent upon the type
of development within CFD No. 2000-1, the interest rate of the bonds, the
timing of the issuance of bonds, the terms of the bonds and the level of
delinquencies in payment of the Special Tax. Based upon current
development and currently available interest rates on the bonds, the estimated
total Special Tax levy in the first fiscal year after the issuance for the bonds
(the fiscal year 2003-04) is projected to be approximately $583,057.50 and
the highest total estimated Special Tax levy during the term of the bonds is
projected to occur in fiscal year 2022-23 and is projected to be approximately
$584,517.50. Based on the foregoing, the highest Special Tax is projected to
be the maximum tax rate, levied in fiscal year 2003-04 for each type of
property as follows:

Type of Property	Special Tax

	Operation and Maintenance

Residential Parcel $54 per taxable	S17 per taxable

dwelling unit	dwelling	unit

The City Council (the “Council'’) of the City of Belmont (the “City”),
acting as the legislative body of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1
of the City of Belmont (the “District”), on December 12, 2000. adopted
Resolution No. 8917 establishing the District pursuant to the Mello-Roos
Community Facilities Act of 1982, which commences with Section 53311
of the California Government Code (the “Act").

The Council, by the adoption of Resolution No. 8918. has called for an
election asking approval of Measure C. Measure C, if adopted, will
authorize the District to issue up to S8.650.000 of bonds (the “Bonds") to
finance a portion of the costs of a new library in Belmont.

Measure C also provides that if the Bonds are issued they would be
paid by the levy of a special tax levied in accordance with a rate and method
of apportionment of the special tax (the "Special Tax Formula”) for the
District. The Special Tax Formula is attached as Exhibit A to Resolution
No. 8919. The Special Tax Formula provides for a levy of special tax to
both fund the debt service on the Bonds and the maintenance costs
associated with the library.

The Bonds, if issued, cannot bear an interest rate that exceeds the
maximum allowed by law (currently 12%) and cannot have a term greater
than 40 years.

In order for Measure C to be approved, two-thirds of the votes cast
must be in favor of Measure C.

A “yes” vote on Measure C is a vote to allow the District to issue Bonds
and to finance a portion of the costs of a new library in Belmont, and to
cause the Special Tax Formula to become effective.

A “no” vote on Measure C is a vote against the issuance of the Bonds,
the financing of a portion of the costs of a new library in Belmont, and the
implementation of the Special Tax Formula.

<impartialend>