<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
CITY OF MERCED CITY MEASURE B

The City Council of the City of Merced has placed Measure B on the ballot to ask
voters to approve a special tax to provide funding for equipment, operation and maintenance of a
proposed aquatic complex to be constructed near Joe Herb Park and Golden Valley High School.
Any remaining funds are to be used for funding City recreational programs, as determined by the
City Council. Voter approval of the Measure is required by Proposition 218, a statewide
initiative approved by the voters in November 1996.

The City Council has determined that the development of an aquatic complex would
compliment existing public facilities and enhance the value of the surrounding recreational and
school sites. In addition, the Council determined that development of an aquatic complex would
benefit local hotels, restaurants and other businesses and would enhance tourism in the City by
attracting aquatic events and other regional and statewide aquatic activities to the complex.

Non-city financial resources will be used to construct the aquatic complex facility. The
revenue generated as a result of this special tax will be used exclusively for the funding of
equipment, operation and maintenance of the facility. A joint operation agreement will be
entered into between the City and the Merced School District that will set forth the terms and
conditions of the shared used of the facility by the City and the School District and the
expenditure and use of the City’s funds. In the event there are available funds remaining, those
funds shall be used to finance City recreational programs, as determined by the City Council.

The City Council has proposed an Ordinance to amend Section 3.08.030 of the Merced
Municipal Code to increase the transient occupancy tax rate by the enactment of a 2% special tax,
subject to a two-thirds vote of the voters of the City of Merced.

This special tax would increase the existing 10% transient occupancy tax rate by 2%, for
a total tax rate of 12%, charged by the hotel operator on the transient for the privilege of
occupancy in any hotel, as defined. The revenue generated from the 2% tax increase would be
used to fund equipment, operation and maintenance of the proposed aquatic complex. Any
remaining funds would be used for the funding of City recreational programs, as determined by
the City Council. The special tax increase would not go into effect until completion of the
construction of the complex as evidenced by the filing with the City’s finance officer of a
properly issued Notice of Completion. The City will collect the additional 2% tax and the funds
will be administered by the finance officer and deposited in a special account to be used
exclusively for the purposes so stated.

Should the voters not adopt this Measure by a two-third vote, the current transient
occupancy tax rate of 10% shall continue to be in effect

<impartialend>