<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

The Initiative Measure would preclude the Carson Council from limiting the
number of companies that collect solid waste or recyclable materials from multi-
family, commercial and industrial properties in the City. The City’s past actions
to limit the number of solid waste collectors operating in the City would be
repealed and the former collectors as well as new collectors who meet certain
minimum standards would be allowed to compete for the business of collecting
solid waste and recyclable materials directly from owners of multiple family (four
units or larger), commercial and industrial properties in the City. The City
Council, with a four-fifths vote, could set maximum but not minimum rates for
this service.

A City tax of ten percent (10%) would be imposed on collectors of solid waste
and recyclable materials from these properties and on businesses that transport
such materials within the City. Revenues from this tax would be deposited into
the City’s General Fund.

For residential properties with three (3) or fewer dwelling units, the City Council
would have discretion to enter into solid waste franchises with one or more
collectors. The Initiative Measure would establish a maximum monthly rate of
twelve dollars ($12.00) for collecting solid waste from these residential
properties. Rate increases would not be permitted before December 31, 2003,
except upon a showing of economic hardship to the collector(s) and a unanimous
vote of five (5) members of the City Council. Rate increases after December 31,
2003 would also require a showing of economic hardship to the collector(s) and
would require four (4) affirmative votes of the City Council. Residential
properties with a head of household over age 62 or who is permanently disabled
would be entitled to a fifty percent (50%) rate discount.

The City could not impose a franchise fee or tax on the collector(s) of solid waste
or recyclable materials collected from residential properties having three (3) or
fewer dwelling units.

Operators of a solid waste disposal transfer station, organic refuse landfill,
recycling facility or waste disposal facility or facilities in the City that collectively
occupy a surface area of forty-five thousand (45,000) square feet or less would be
charged a business permit fee of three percent (3%) of the gross receipts arising
from the operation of the facility or facilities. Persons or entities operating these
type of facilities in the City that occupy a surface area of more than forty-five
thousand (45,000) square feet would pay a business permit fee of four thousand
dollars ($4,000.00) for each day the facility is open for business. Revenues
generated from these business permit fees would be deposited into the City’s
General Fund.

The Initiative Measure would make numerous additional changes to the
Municipal Code and the City’s Source Reduction, Recycling and Household
Hazardous Waste Elements,

<impartialend>