

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF WOODLAND MEASURE G

Measure G proposes to raise additional revenue for general City of Woodland purposes by extending the current % cent sales tax within the City of Woodland. The tax would be paid in addition to other current State and local sales taxes during the extension period and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as the existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7286.52 authorizes
the City Council to levy a transactions and use (i.e. a “sales”) tax
at certain rates, including a 0.5 percent (i.e., V2 cent) rate, if the tax
is approved by a majority of the voters in an election on that issue.
A majority of Woodland voters approved a Vi cent sales tax in the
March 2000 election. That sales tax will expire June 30.2006, unless
the voters approve an extension. If Measure G is approved, the
existing sales tax would be extended to June 30, 2012, an additional
six years. The tax would expire at the end of the six-year period
unless it is (1) terminated earlier by action of the City Council or
(2) reauthorized for an additional period of time by a majority of the
voters in a subsequent election.

Measure G states that the 1/2 cent sales tax is to be used “for
city facilities, services and programs.” Because this sales tax would
be a “general tax,” the City would be able to use tax proceeds for
any legal governmental purpose without restriction. The City would
not be legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special
purpose or for any particular facilities, program, or service.

The measure requires the City annually to prepare a detailed
report of income and expenditures of sales tax revenues and to
present the report to the public and to publish it in local newspapers.

The “mandatory restriction’ to annually present and publish a
report of income and expenditures does not legally restrict in any
way the scope of the City's right to use the tax proceeds for general
City purposes.

