<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP MEASURE “B”

CITY OF LA QUINTA

The Ordinance presented to the voters of the City of La Quinta for
their adoption would authorize the City Council to annually levy a fire
protection and paramedic special tax, if approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting on March 5, 2002, in accordance with Article XIIIC of the
Constitution of the State of California (“Proposition 218") and Government Code Section 53720 and following. If approved, the Ordinance
would amend Chapter 3.19 of the City's Municipal Code to delete the
previous Chapter 3.19 and put in its place a new Chapter 3.19 in the form
set forth in the ballot pamphlet.

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax would be
imposed on all parcels of property in the City which are zoned or used for
residences, commercial, industrial buildings, hotels and golf courses.
The rates of annual taxation range from $10 per acre per year for
undeveloped land zoned for residential or commercial/industrial uses to
$610 per acre per year for parcels with commercial/industrial structures.
For single-family residential parcels, the maximum special tax is $85 per
unit for the 2002-2003 Fiscal Year. Section 3.19.040 of the Ordinance
which is set forth in the voters' pamphlet contains the full details of rates
for each category of property. The maximum rates for each category of
property will be increased 3$ each fiscal year after the 2002-2003 Fiscal
Year, compounded. As explained below, these maximum rates set the
ceiling on what may be levied by the City Council. The actual amount of
the levy would be sit annually by an action of the City Council and would
not exceed the maximum rate set by the Ordinance. The special tax will
not be imposed on any parcel which is exempt from ad valorem property
taxes. Such as the property of a church or nonprofit corporation. The
special tax will be collected on the regular County property tax bills and
will be due in two equal installments in December and April.

The City Council would levy the special tax each fiscal year in an
amount not exceeding the maximum special tax for that fiscal year on
each category of property, so as to provide {with other City funds) an
adequate level of fire protection and paramedic services in the City. The
revenue produced by the special tax may only be used for providing fire
protection and paramedic services in the City and for no other purpose.
The unexpended residue of any revenue raised by the special tax may
be used by the City Council in the succeeding fiscal year for additional
fire protection services or used to lower the next year’s tax levy by the
amount unexpended.

<impartialend>