<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

Ballot Measure H asks the voters to ratify and approve the continued collection of the
City’s existing Utility Users Tax. The Utility Users Tax imposes a tax on the use of
telephone, electricity, natural gas and cable television services in the City. The tax is
paid at the fixed rate of 2% of the charges incurred by the consumers of these services.
The consumer pays the tax as part of the utility bill.

The Utility Users Tax was adopted by the City Council as a general tax in 1994 and has
been collected by the City since that time. General taxes are taxes that are not limited to
a specific purpose, but are used for general city functions, such as police, fire and
community services and street and park maintenance. Currently, the Utility Users Tax
raises about $3 million per year in tax revenues.

The Ballot Measure is proposed in response to a recent California Supreme Court
decision that subjects the Utility Users Tax to a risk of legal challenge for as long as the
tax is collected without voter approval. When the City Council adopted the Utility users
Tax in 1994, courts had ruled that general taxes could be adopted by the City Council
without a vote of the people. The California Supreme Court overturned those earlier
decisions relied upon by the City Council, holding that general taxes require voter
approval. The City Council has proposed this measure to allow the voters the
opportunity to ratify the past collection of the tax and approve its continued collection at
the existing rate of 2% in the future. If adopted, the City Council may not increase the
rate of the tax without voter approval by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.

The Ballot Measure adds two new sections to the existing Utility Users Tax ordinance.
An exemption from the payment of the tax is provided for low income senior citizens and
low income disabled persons. The second section requires an annual audit by the City’s
independent auditors that will review whether the Utility Users Tax revenues are being
collected, managed and expended in accordance with the tax ordinance.

A “yes” vote on Measure H enacts an ordinance continuing and ratifying the City’s
existing 2% Utility Users Tax. A “no” vote will result in the tax no longer being
collected and the loss of about $3 million in annual tax revenues. A “no” vote also may
result in liability to the City for the refund of taxes previously collected. The Ballot
Measure will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure.

<impartialend>