<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASUREZ

A YES vote on this measure is a vote in favor of increasing
existing transient occupancy tax levied on occupancy of tourist
accommodations within the City, and in favor of increasing existing
business and professions tax levied on businesses and professions
which transact business in the City of South Lake Tahoe.

A NO vote on this measure is a vote against increasing tax paid
by tourists from its present rates of 10% - 12%, and against increasing
the business and professions tax rates paid for doing business in
the City of South Lake Tahoe.

If enacted, the increase in existing transient occupancy tax would
be paid by persons occupying accommodations within the City on
a transient basis as defined by existing City ordinance. All tourist
accommodations within the City would collect an additional $1.00
per occupied room night for 4 years only. Under certain conditions,
up to $1.50 per occupied room night could be collected. Tourist
accommodations presently collect a tax of 10% of the room rate
outside the Redevelopment Area, and 12% on newly constructed,
or rehabilitated properties within the Redevelopment area. It is
projected, based upon 2000-2001 collections that approximately
$900,000 per year would be raised at the $1.00 per occupied room
night rate. It is further estimated, based upon 2000-2001 collections
that up to approximately $450,000 would be raised if the additional
charge of up to 500 per occupied room night is assessed. Up to
an additional 500 per occupied room night may be assessed by
resolution of the City Council if, after holding a public hearing, the
City Council finds that the additional tax is needed as a result of
events which result in revenue losses or expenses to the City caused
by circumstances such as natural or man-made disasters, or state
funding cuts in any fiscal year exceeding $200,000. The additional
occupied room night taxes shall be of no further force and effect
after October 31, 2006.

If enacted, businesses classified within the following schedules
will pay business license fees per $1,000 of gross receipts as follows:

Schedule A:	1.04

Schedule B:	1.56

Schedule C:	2.08

Schedule D:	2.60

Schedule E:	3.12

If a majority of the qualified electors voting on the measure vote
YES, the increases in transient occupancy tax and business and
professions tax may take effect immediately. If a majority of the
qualified electors vote NO, the proposed increases will not be levied.

This measure is a general tax, the proceeds of which are under
the control and direction of the locally elected members of the City

Council. The use of the proceeds is not specifically limited, but the
uses must be consistent with law and for a public purpose.

This impartial analysis is submitted to the voters as required by
Section 9280 of the Elections Code.

<impartialend>