

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

This measure seeks voter approval of an increase in the Utility Users' Tax rate
from 5% to 7.5% to be implemented by Ordinance Number 2811, and voter
affirmation and ratification of Ordinance No. 2804 enacted May 28, 2002 to take
account of and implement the federal Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act.
The original Utility Users’ Tax was adopted in 1970 and imposes a 5% tax on the
use of utilities by Whittier residents. The tax applies to electricity, natural gas,
water, cable television, and telephone services. The tax rate has never been
increased. The ordinance contains provisions for the exemption of low income
persons and procedures for seeking such exemptions. It also contains provisions
relating to calculation and payment of the Utility Users’ Tax, administration of
the tax, and requests for refunds.

The Utility Users’ Tax currently provides approximately $6.6 million of the City’s
general fund revenue, or approximately 16% of the City’s general fund operating
budget.

A “yes” vote on this measure would approve the increase in the Utility Users’
Tax, and ratify Ordinance 2804 which implemented the Federal Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act. Although the Council approved ordinance
2804 to implement the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (which was
enacted with the support of the wireless telephone industry'), voter approval is
being sought to confirm consistent treatment of wireless telephone service with
traditional wired telephone service, and to avoid litigation threatened by one
wireless carrier that would potentially cost Whittier taxpayers hundreds of
thousands of dollars.

Approval of the measure would generate additional general fund revenue in the
approximate amount of $3.36 million annually, which can be used to fund all
general services and programs, including high priority capital improvement
projects. The new tax rate would begin to be collected no later than March 1,
2003. In addition, the City Council has introduced an ordinance to raise the
existing household income limitation from $12,500 to $19,300 to qualify for
exemption from the Utility Users’ Tax if Measure W is approved by the voters.
This would allow more persons to qualify for the low income exemption. Those
who qualify for exemption from the existing tax would also qualify for exemption
from the increase. The City Council has also approved formation of a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee to advise the City Council as to the recommended use of
the increased general fund revenue from the proposed increase and to evaluate
actual expenditures of the increased revenues.

A “no” vote on this measure would leave the tax rate at 5%. If there is no
increase in general fund revenue, the City Council will have to determine what
programs, services or projects would have to be reduced, postponed or
eliminated in coming budgets. If the measure does not pass, the income
threshold for exemption from the tax will not be raised, but those currently
eligible for the exemption would continue to qualify for it. In addition, the City
will likely be exposed to a lawsuit and its attendant costs if Ordinance 2804 is not
ratified.

