

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF SUISUN CITY MEASURE D

The City Council of the City of Suisun City has placed Measure D on the ballot for the March
5, 2002 election to ask voters to affirm the imposition of the City’s existing general tax on the
use of hotel accommodations in the City. Because the tax is a general tax, if Measure D passes,
the revenue generated would go into the City's General Fund and could be used for any City
purpose.

On May 7,1991, pursuant to its authority under California Revenue and Taxation Code sections
7280 et sq., the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 591, adding Chapter 5.06 to the Municipal
Code, which provided for the imposition and collection of a general excise tax on the privilege
of using hotel accommodations in the City (a "transient occupancy tax” or “TOT") to be paid by
hotel users and collected by hotel operators. As a general tax, revenue from the TOT is not
restricted to a specific use.

On May 7, 1991, the Council also adopted Resolution No. 91-28, which set the amount of
the TOT at 10% of the room rate charged by the hotel operator to the hotel user.

Voter affirmation of the TOT is required by Proposition 218, a statewide initiative approved
by the voters in November 1996. The effect of the approval of Proposition 218 was to require
cities that had previously adopted some kinds of general taxes to submit those taxes to the cities’
voters to affirm their continued imposition.

Suisun Hotel Partners, Ltd. is scheduled to open a new hotel on the City’s waterfront in the
summer of 2002 (the "Waterfront Hotel"). The City Council placed Measure D before the voters
to assure that the TOT received the necessary voter affirmation prior to the opening of the
Waterfront Hotel.

The resolution placing Measure D on the ballot sets forth the type of tax, amount of the tax,
manner of collecting the tax, exemptions, refunds, use of the proceeds and other related matters.
A copy of the resolution is printed in the sample ballot.

The tax will not become effective unless Measure D is approved by a majority of those voting
on the Measure.

