<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure I asks the voters whether the City of Fowler should continue to collect a Utility
User's Tax upon customers of electricity, gas, and telephone service within the City of Fowler. In 1999
the voters approved a Utility Users Tax for a period of three (3) years, until January 1,2003, as follows:

Five percent (5%) upon residential customers of electricity and
gas based upon monthly charges for the electricity and
gas service.

Three percent (3%) upon commercial, industrial, and
agricultural customers of electricity and gas based upon
monthly charges for the electricity and gas service.

Five percent (5%) upon all customers of telephones based
upon the monthly base service rate for the local
telephone service. The telephone tax will not be imposed
upon other services provided by the service provider,
such as long distance and wireless services.

Measure I asks the voters if this tax should be continued for an additional four (4) years, until January
1,2007. Measure I must be approved by a majority of the voters. If approved, the tax will continue in
effect until January 1,2007, at which time the tax will automatically terminate. The City Council may
elect to terminate the tax sooner.

The tax will be implemented through Ordinance No. 99-6 previously approved by the City Council on
July 20,1999, as amended by Ordinance No. 02-04 approved by the City Council on August 6, 2002.
The tax will continue to be collected by the service provider. For telephone service, if the monthly base
service rate drops below the minimum rate currently charged by the City's primary supplier of
telephone communication services, GTE, the monthly base service rate upon which the tax is calculated
will be the monthly base service rate currently being charged by GTE.

The Utility User's Tax is a general tax to be used for general governmental purposes of the City of
Fowler. The proceeds of the tax will continue to be placed in the City's general fund and may be used
for the current expenses of the City as determined by the City Council in making budgetary decisions.
The City would not be legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for
any particular program or service.

<impartialend>