<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE I

The City Council of the City of Buena Park recently formed City of Buena
Park Community Facilities District No. 2002-1 (New Police Facility) (the
“District”) to pay costs associated with constructing a new Police
Headquarters. The proposed Headquarters will be approximately 50,000
square feet and is designed to house officers and civilian employees who
provide the delivery of law enforcement services. The Headquarters will
include a modern crime lab, juvenile detention facility, earthquake-resistant
emergency operations center, jail facility, police firing range, male and
female locker room facilities, dispatch center coordinating fire, paramedic,
and police services, upgraded computers, community meeting rooms,
police training rooms and necessary office space to accommodate
administrative, investigation, traffic and other support services. The facility
will also include a secured parking area for police vehicles and employee
personal vehicles.

Measure I seeks the voters’ approval for the District to levy a special tax
to pay for a portion of the cost of the facilities described above and incidental
expenses, and to establish an appropriations limit for the District. The tax is
to be levied on all parcels within the City, except for certain exempt parcels
(such as publicly-owned parcels). The maximum special tax for a
single-family residential parcel is $19 per year. The maximum special tax for
each parcel is based on the land use of the parcel, and in some cases, on
the size of the parcel. The special tax may only be levied until June 30,2033.

If approved, the special tax will be subject to the following accountability
measures: (i) the above described appropriations limit, which would prevent
the District from spending more on the Headquarters each year than is
collected in special tax revenues; (ii) the establishment of a Citizens
Oversight Committee to monitor budget, schedule, and project
commitments in connection with the Headquarters and the use of special
tax proceeds; and (iii) a requirement that proceeds of the special tax be kept
by the District in a separate fund and that an annual independent audit be
conducted of that fund and made available to the public.

A “Yes” vote on this Measure is a vote in support of a special tax levied
within the City, subject to the accountability measures, and a vote in support
of the establishment of an appropriations limit for the District.

A "No” vote on this Measure is a vote against a special tax for the new
Police Headquarters and a vote against the establishment of the
appropriations limit for the District,

The Measure must be approved by 2/3 of those voting at the election to
be adopted.

<impartialend>