<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

The Rohnert Park Municipal Code is the official collection of City of Rohnert Park
local laws. One such law requires that every business in Rohnert Park pay a
business license tax to the City’s General Fund. The tax is paid into the City’s
General Fund. Monies in the General Fund are used for the ordinary and
necessary operations of the City and are not earmarked for a specific purpose.
The General Fund is spent according to a budget adopted by the City Council.

Different types of businesses pay differing amounts of tax. For example, an
architect pays $200 for each professional and semi-professional in the architect’s
office. A general building contractor pays $250 per year; an electrical or plumbing
contractor pays $150 per year. A retail store, such as a grocery store or clothing
store pays a tax of $50.00 for the first employee, and $15.00 for each additional
employee, up to a maximum of $5,000 per year.

In 1994, the City increased the business license tax for most businesses. Each
increase was slightly different, depending upon the type of business. A 25%
increase was the highest increase. Voter approval is required to continue to
collect the business license tax at the current rates. This is because the law
requiring voter approval of general taxes was re-instated in 1995; and the law that
allows a taxpayer to challenge a tax was changed in 2001. In 1986 a law was
enacted that required voter-approval for increases in general taxes. By 1991
several courts had ruled that this law, known as Proposition 62, violated the
California Constitution. However, in 1995 the California Supreme Court
overturned those court decisions and ruled that Proposition 62 was lawful. This
meant that an increase in a general tax requires voter approval. When the City
increased the business license tax in 1994, voter approval was not required.
When three years elapsed from the date of the Rohnert Park increase, it was
protected from legal challenge. However, in 2001, the California Supreme Court
decided that each time the tax was collected, this three-year period begins again.
This means that a business license taxpayer may challenge the increase any time
within three years of each time the tax is paid on the basis that it did not receive
voter approval. Measure U removes this possibility by asking for voter approval of
the 1994 increase.

A “yes” vote on Measure U means that businesses in Rohnert Park will continue to
pay the same amount of business license tax after the election as they have since
1994.

A “no” vote on Measure U means that businesses in Rohnert Park will pay the
same amount of business license tax after the election as they did before the
increase in 1994.

<impartialend>
