<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

The Rohnert Park Municipal Code is the official collection of City of Rohnert Park
local laws. One such law requires that a person who stays in a hotel, motel, or
other lodging in Rohnert Park for thirty consecutive days or less, pay a transient
occupancy tax. The tax is collected from the hotel guest by the hotel operator and
paid to the City of Rohnert Park’s General Fund. Monies in the General Fund are
used for the ordinary and necessary operations of the City and are not earmarked
for a specific purpose. The General Fund is spent according to a budget adopted
by the City Council.

The transient occupancy tax is 11 % of the price for the room or other lodging. If a
hotel room costs $100 per night, for example, then the transient occupancy tax is
$1.10. Measure T would increase the transient occupancy tax to 12%. If Measure T
passes, the transient occupancy tax on a hotel room that costs $100 per night,
would be $1.20. If Measure T does not pass, the transient occupancy tax will
decrease from 11 % to 10%. If Measure T does not pass, the transient occupancy
tax on a hotel room that costs $100 per night, would be $1.00. The decrease
would occur because of a change in the law affecting voter approval for new or
increased taxes.

In 1986 a law was enacted that required voter-approval for increases in general
taxes. By 1991 several courts had ruled that this law, known as Proposition 62,
violated the California Constitution, The City of Rohnert Park increased the
transient occupancy tax from 10% to 11% in 1992. At the time of the increase,
voter approval was not required. In 1995, the California Supreme Court over-
turned those other court decisions and ruled that Proposition 62 was lawful. This
meant that an increase in a general tax requires voter approval. When three years
elapsed from the date of the Rohnert Park increase, it was protected from legal
challenge. However, in 2001, the California Supreme Court decided that each'
time the tax was collected, this three-year period begins again. This means that at
any time three years from payment of the tax, the taxpayer may challenge the
increase from 10% to 11% on the basis that it did not receive voter approval.
Measure T removes this possibility by asking for voter approval of the increase
(and an additional 1% increase to 12%).

A “yes” vote on Measure T means that the transient occupancy tax will remain at 12%.

A “no” vote on Measure T means that the transient occupancy tax will decrease to 10%.

<impartialend>