

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q
Prepared by City Attorney

The Manteca City Attorney has prepared the following
pursuant to California Elections Code section 9280:

Impartial Analysis of Measure Q Showing the Effect
of the Measure on Existing Law and the Operation of
the Measure

The City of Manteca currently collects a supplemental
transient occupancy tax from hotel/motel occupants (those
occupying hotel/motel rooms within the City of Manteca for
fewer than 30 days). The supplemental transient occupancy
tax is currently charged in the amount of 4% of the cost of the
hotel/motel room. The guest pays the tax to the hotel/motel
and the entity remits the tax to the City of Manteca. The City
of Manteca deposits supplemental transient occupancy tax
revenue into its General Fund, which supports a number of
City services, including police and fire protection and youth
and senior recreation activities. A complete description of the
supplemental transient occupancy tax is located at Chapter
3.17 of the Manteca Municipal Code, which is available on the
City’s website at “www.ci.manteca.ca.us”.

In May of 1990, by City Council-adopted ordinance, a
supplemental transient occupancy tax increased the total tax
from 5% to 9% of the hotel/motel room charge. The tax is
considered a general tax. At the time of the tax increase in
1990, voter approval was not required for general tax
increases. Proposition 218 required that any general tax
imposed, extended or increased from January 1, 1995,
through November 6, 1996, receive voter approval. Given the
language of Proposition 218, it was determined that general
tax increases adopted before January 1, 1995, did not require
voter approval. However, since that time, court decisions
have created uncertainty as to whether a general tax
increased over ten years ago now requires voter approval.
Because transient occupancy tax revenues support a variety
of essential City services, the City of Manteca has deemed it
prudent to place the tax on the ballot for voter approval. City,
staff estimates that a reduction in the supplemental transient
occupancy tax would result in a loss of approximately
$186,000 a year to the City’s General Fund. This is
approximately one percent (1%) of the City of Manteca’s
annual General Fund tax revenue. The Manteca City Council
seeks voter ratification of this general tax in the amount of 4%
of the hotel/motel room charge. If ratified, the City’s current
supplemental transient occupancy tax in the amount of 4% of
the hotel/motel room charge will remain in place. No change
to the City of Manteca’s Municipal Code implementing the
current transient occupancy tax will be necessary.

Adoption of the proposed measure (Measure Q) will continue
collection of the City’s existing supplemental transient
occupancy tax at the rate of 4% of hotel/motel room charges.

<impartialend>