<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE P

This measure would authorize amendment of the San Rafael
Municipal Code to increase the maximum rate of the City’s Paramedic
Services Special Tax on residential units and non-residential structures.
The total increase could not exceed $8.00 per unit for residential units,
and $.01 per square-foot for non-residential units.

Currently, the maximum Paramedic Tax rate is $53.00 per unit for
residential structures and $.07 per square-foot for non-residential
structures. The current tax rate will expire on June 30, 2003. The
paramedic tax will revert to $40.00 for residential units and $.05 per non-
residential structures if this measure is not approved by the voters.

This measure does not automatically raise the Paramedic Tax to the
maximum levels authorized. Rather, each year, the City Council is
required to set the tax level after reviewing actual costs of the Paramedic
Services program during its budget review process. The City Council
could, but need not, increase the tax if, and only if, the Paramedic
Services program costs exceed the Paramedic Tax revenue, and the
Council could only increase the tax to that level necessary to fully fund
the costs of the Paramedic Services program.

This measure would increase the maximum Paramedic Tax rate from
$53.00 to $61.00 per unit for residential units and from $.07 per square-
foot to $.08 per square-foot for non-residential structures. This measure
would also increase the appropriations limit for the City of San Rafael for
four (4) years (2003/2004 through 2006/2007) by the total amount
collected under this tax so as to enable the City to expend the money
collected, as authorized by Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
This measure also revises the definition of “residential unit" contained in
the Paramedic Tax Ordinance.

This measure prohibits the City Council from setting the Paramedic
Tax rate above the limits authorized. It prohibits the City Council from
expending any of the tax revenue collected under it for any purpose
Other than the San Rafael Paramedic Services program. This measure
retains the current requirement that the City Council attempt to maintain
parity between the tax rate for residential units and that for non-
residential structures.

The ordinance amendments proposed by this measure will be
adopted if approved by a two-thirds majority of those electors voting on
the measure.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>