<impartial>

CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE
CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR
INITIATIVE TO LIMIT UTILITY USERS TAX
MEASURE P

An initiative to reduce the City's utility users tax has been
presented to the City of Pacific Grove and has qualified for
placement on the November 5, 2002 ballot for consideration by
the voters of the City of Pacific Grove. The initiative would
amend five sections of the Pacific Grove Municipal Code to
reduce the utility users tax, first adopted by the City in 1968,
from five percent to three percent of the charges for the
following utilities: telephone, electricity, gas (delivered through
mains or pipes), water and cable television. Certain persons,
including very low income and disabled persons, can currently
obtain an exemption from payment the tax. This initiative
would not change that exemption.

Currently, the utility users tax accounts for approximately nine
percent of the City's total General Fund revenue. General
Fund revenues are used to provide many general City services
such as police and fire protection, public works, recreation, and
general administration.

If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure,
this ordinance will take effect 10 days following the date on
which the City Council declares the results of the election.
However, the reduction in the utility users tax will take effect on
January 1,2003.

If the initiative is approved, Pacific Grove utility users will pay
a three percent utility users tax beginning on January 1, 2003.
It the initiative is approved, the City will receive approximately
$400,000 less in annual tax revenues for the payment of
general governmental activities than it would receive if the
initiative is not approved. If the initiative is not approved, the
City will continue collecting the utility users tax, and the City will
continue to receive tax revenues at the same tax rate as it has
since 1968.

Because the City is limited in its ability to raise revenues from
other sources without voter approval, approval of the initiative
will likely require Pacific Grove to cut its general fund
expenditures by $400,000, which will result in the reduction or
elimination of some City programs.

<impartialend>