<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE D

Measure D, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, will extend for four (4) years, at the current tax rates, the
Park Maintenance Tax, a special tax adopted by the Davis voters
in June 1998. Unless extended by the voters, the existing 1998 Park
Maintenance Tax will expire in June 2002. If Measure D is adopted,
it will replace the 1998 Park Maintenance Tax beginning July 1,
2002.

Measure D, the extended Park Maintenance Tax, as set forth in
Ordinance No. 2074, will continue to provide funding for the
maintenance and operation of community parks, greenbelts, open
space, street and public lighting, swimming pools, and related public
facilities. As a special tax, the tax revenue must be placed in a
special fund and can only be used for these purposes and incidental
expenses related to these purposes.

The Park Maintenance Tax will continue to be imposed on parcels
of property within the City based on the use of the property. The
maximum tax per parcel per fiscal year (July 1-June 30) under
Measure D will be calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living
Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day
Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$49.00 per unit
$49.00 per unit
$20.00 per resident
$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of
Improved Building Space up to
a maximum of 10,000 square
feet

$12.80 per employee up to a

maximum of 30 employees
$14.30 per 1,000 square

feet of Improved Building
Space up to a maximum of
10,000 square feet
$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

If approved by the voters, the tax would be imposed at the rates
set forth above for the first two years of the extended tax. For the
third and fourth years of the tax, the City Council may set the tax
rate at an amount not to exceed the maximum tax rate. In the event
that the voters approve another type of revenue measure, or tax,
to replace this park tax prior to the expiration of this park tax, the
City will cease collecting this park tax consistent with the provisions
of the replacement measure.

Measure D includes several exemptions to the tax including an
exemption for public property and the requirement to continue the
existing exemption for low income persons.

The Park Maintenance Tax would continue to be collected with
the ad valorem property taxes for each parcel, unless the City later
decided to collect the tax with other City taxes and charges.

Measure D would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2006 and
could not be collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters
voting in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of
the tax.

<impartialend>