<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “V”

This initiative Municipal Code amendment, if passed, would change
the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”) so that: (1) the tax collected
from hotel occupants is based on number of rooms in the hotel, not
whether the hotel is a group meeting hotel, (2) the tax collected will vary
from 10% to 12,5% based on the number of rooms, and (3) monies
raised by the tax will be spent solely to encourage projects related to
local tourism, and not for general City services. Your “yes” vote means
that the City’s TOT would be changed in the way described. Your “no”
vote means there would be no change to the current law.

The TOT, established by the City in 1967, applies to guests who stay
at hotels for less than 30 days. TOT rates vary by city including, for example, La Quinta-11%, Palm Desert-9%, Los Angeles-14%, and
Anaheim-15%, Currently, in Palm Springs TOT of 12,5% is charged to
guests of Group Meeting Hotels and 11,5% is charged to guests of all
other hotels.

Group Meeting Hotels are those with at least 125 rooms which
benefit directly from City tourism promotional activities. Currently, there
are 15 Group Meeting Hotels in the City, This measure would replace
the current TOT with a graduated TOT as follows: 10% for hotels with
less than 50 rooms, 11.5% for hotels with 50 to 124 rooms, and 12.5% for
hotels with 125 or more rooms.

As to how TOT is spent, currently the first 7% of the TOT collected is
allocated to the City’s Community Promotion Fund and used to promote
the Palm Springs tourism industry, All other TOT collected is allocated to
the City's general fund and may be used for City operational expenses.

This measure would require that all TOT collected be allocated to
the City’s Community Promotion Fund, Such funds could be spent only
for specified uses, including: promoting the Palm Springs tourism indus-
try; maintenance or operation of the Palm Springs Convention Center;
maintenance, operation, capital improvements or other costs related to
public parking, libraries, parks, and senior or youth facilities and
programs; public arts programs; and special events. Furthermore, the
cost to collect TOT funds are currently derived from TOT revenue,
however, this measure would prohibit TOT revenue to pay for collection
costs, shifting such costs to the general fund.

According to the City’s Finance Department, this measure would
cost the City approximately $500,000 annually in administrative costs
resulting from the change to a per-room accounting method. Also,
approximately $5 million would be shifted away from the City general
fund to the Community Promotion Fund,

Under Proposition 218, enacted by the voters in 1996, a tax imposed
for specific purposes is a special tax and requires approval by 2/3 of the
voters. Since this measure, which can only be amended by the voters,
places TOT collected into a Community Promotion Fund and restricts
how those funds are spent, this measure will likely require approval by
2/3 of the voters to take effect.

<impartialend>