<impartial>

IMPARTIAL analysis of measure N
Prepared by City Attorney

The City of Tracy currently collects a transient occupancy tax,
also known as a “bed tax,” from transients (those occupying
hotel rooms within the City of Tracy for fewer than 30 days).
The transient occupancy tax is currently charged in the
amount of 10% of the cost of the hotel room. The transient
pays the tax to the hotel and the hotel remits the tax to the
City of Tracy. The City of Tracy deposits transient occupancy
tax revenue into its General Fund, which supports a number
of City services, including police and fire protection and youth
and senior recreation activities. A complete description of the
transient occupancy tax is located at sections 8.08.140 and
following of the Tracy Municipal Code, which is available on
the City’s website at “www.ci.tracy.ca.us.”

In December of 1990, the transient occupancy tax was
increased from 6% to 10% of the hotel room charge by City
Council-adopted ordinance. Because transient occupancy tax
revenue is deposited into the City of Tracy’s General Fund,
the tax is considered to be a general tax. At the time of the
tax increase in 1990, voter approval was not required for
general tax increases. Proposition 218 required that any
general tax imposed, extended or increased from January 1,
1995, through November 6, 1996, receive voter approval.
Given the language of Proposition 218, it was determined that
general tax increases adopted before January 1, 1995, did
not require voter approval. However, since that time, court
decisions have created uncertainty as to whether a general
tax increased over ten years ago now requires voter approval.
Because transient occupancy tax revenue supports a variety
of essential City services, the City of Tracy has deemed it
prudent to place the tax on the ballot for voter approval. City
staff estimates that a reduction in the transient occupancy tax
would result in a loss of approximately $300,000 a year to the
City’s General Fund. This is approximately two percent of the
City of Tracy’s annual General Fund tax revenue. By putting
the transient occupancy tax on the ballot, the Tracy City
Council seeks voter ratification of this general tax in the
amount of 10% of the hotel room charge. If ratified, the City’s
current transient occupancy tax in the amount of 10% of the
hotel room charge will remain in place. No change to the City
of Tracy’s Municipal Code implementing the current transient
occupancy tax will be necessary.

Adoption of the proposed measure (Measure ”N”) will continue
collection of the City’s existing transient occupancy tax at the
rate of 10% of hotel room charges.

<impartialend>