<impartial>

MEASURE II
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

This measure seeks voter ratification and continuation of the Utility
Users’ Tax, enacted by the City Council on December 15, 1992, by
Ordinance No. 1445 {as amended), which imposed a 6% tax on the use of
utilities by residents of the City of La Habra. The utilities upon which the tax
is imposed are electricity, fuel/natural gas, water, cable television and
telephone services. The ordinance was amended on June 18, 2001, to
provide for a suspension in the Utility Users’ Tax imposed upon electricity
usage so that a 4.5% tax is being collected on electricity rather than 6%,
effective August 1, 2001. Further amendments to the ordinance, relating to
administrative procedures, were enacted July 16,2001 and August 6,2001.
The ordinance contains provisions for the exemption of low income seniors
and low income disabled persons and provides procedures for seeking such
exemptions. It also contains provisions relating to calculation and payment
of the Utility Users’ Tax, administration of the tax, and requests for refunds.

The Utility Users’ Tax provides just over $4 million of the City’s general
fund revenue, or approximately 15% of the City’s general fund operating
budget.

A “yes” vote on this measure would ratify the Utility Users’ Tax, as
enacted and as subsequently amended, from its date of adoption, and allow
its continuance until December 31, 2007. Approval of the measure would
make permanent the reduction in the tax rate on electricity from 6% to 4.5%
for the remaining life of the Utility Users’ Tax. If approved, the collection of
the tax would be required to terminate on December 31, 2007. In addition,
existing provisions of the Utility Users’ Tax ordinance providing for the
exemption from the tax for low income seniors and low income disabled
persons would continue in full force and effect and could not be modified
without a vote of the people. Under existing state law, the Utilities Users’
Tax could not be increased, extended, or continued beyond December 31,
2007, without a vote of the people.

A “no” vote on this measure would require the City to cease collecting the
Utility Users’ Tax and result in a 15% reduction in the City’s general fund
revenue. If the measure does not pass, the reduction in revenue would
require reductions in expenditures which will have to be determined by the
City Council.

A “no” vote could also expose the City to claims for refunds of past Utility
Users’ Taxes collected in an amount in excess of $4 million.

<impartialend>