<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “M”

CITY OF LA QUINTA

If passed at the November 5,2002 election, this Initiative Ordinance
would authorize the La Quinta City Council annually to levy a special tax
to maintain and enhance fire protection and paramedic services within
the City of La Quinta, Under the California Constitution, this Ordinance
requires the approval of two-thirds of the voters voting at the election in
order to take effect.

The Ordinance authorizes tie la Quinta City Council to place the
fire protection and paramedic services tax on all parcels of land within La
Quinta that are zoned or used for residential, commercial, industrial,
hotel or golf course purposes. However, land that is exempt from
property taxes, such as land owned by religious institutions and
non-profit corporations, is exempt from the tax. The Ordinance establishes the maximum tax rate that the City Council may impose annually
for each type of land use. These maximum annual tax rates range from
$10 per acre for undeveloped land zoned for residential or commercial/industrial uses, to $610 per acre for parcels developed with commercial or industrial structures. For single family residential parcels, the
Ordinance sets a maximum annual tax rate of $85 per parcel for the
2003-2004 fiscal year (July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2004). After the
2003-2004 fiscal year, each of the maximum tax rates increases by 3%
per year, compounded.

Under the Ordinance, the City Council may levy the fire protection
and paramedic services tax each year at a rate that does not exceed the
maximum rate then in effect under the Ordinance. The City Council may
set the annual rates at levels less than or equal to, but not greater than,
the maximum annual tax rate authorized by the Ordinance. The
Ordinance -provides that the special fire protection and paramedic
services tax be itemized and collected with the regular County property
tax bills. Payment of this tax will be due in two equal installments, in
December and April.

The revenue raised by the fire protection and paramedic services
tax may only be used for maintaining and enhancing the provision of fire
protection and paramedic services to the residents, businesses and
properties within La Quinta, and for no other purpose. Any revenues from
this tax that are not expended in a given year for fire protection and
paramedic services may be used by the La Quinta City Council in
succeeding fiscal years to expand or enhance fire protection and/or
paramedic services, to reduce the tax levied on real property parcels in
La Quinta, or a combination of increased services and reduced tax rates.

If passed by two-thirds of the voters voting on November 5, 2002,
this Ordinance will take effect ten days after the La Quinta City Council declares the results of the special tax election. 

<impartialend>