<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX MEASURE F

State law authorizes a city to tax a person who rents space in a
hotel, motel or other place for temporary lodging that is located in the
city. The tax is for the privilege of occupying that space and only
applies to a period of occupancy that is less than 30 days. When a city
imposes such a tax (referred to as a transient occupancy or hotel/motel
tax) it is owed by the person who rents the space, however, the lodging
operator collects the tax and turns it over to the city.

Immediately following the City's incorporation in 1968, the City
Council adopted an ordinance imposing the hotel/motel occupancy tax
and set the amount of the tax at 4%. In 1983 the Council increased the
tax to 8% where it has remained to the present time.

The City Council now proposes to increase the rate of the
occupancy tax to 9%% in order to provide revenue for general
governmental purposes. Under an amendment to the California
Constitution approved by the voters in 1996 (known as Proposition 218)
the City may not increase the amount of the tax unless it is approved
by a majority vote. Even though the tax is paid for by persons who
occupy the lodging space, not by residents or property owners in the
City (unless they rent lodging space), an increase in the tax must
nevertheless be approved by the voters of the City.

If the ballot measure is approved by a majority of those who
vote at the election, the amount of the tax will be increased from 8% to
9/4% of the rent that the owner of a hotel/motel or similar lodging
charges as long as the occupancy does not exceed 30 days. The
amount of the hotel/motel tax imposed by other cities in Contra Costa
County ranges in amount from 4% to 10%. The City's administrative
office estimates that if the increase is approved, the amount collected
on an annual basis will increase from $350,000.00 to $415,625.00. If
the increase is approved the proceeds of the tax that the City receives
will be used for general governmental purposes.

<impartialend>