<impartial>

CITY OF EUREKA
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “X”
UTILITY USERS TAX

Measure X asks the voters whether the City of Eureka should
continue to collect a utility users tax. The tax would be imposed at
the rate of three percent (3%) of the usage of the following utility
services:

(1)	Intrastate telephone communication services billed to an
account located within the City’s boundaries;

(2)	Electrical energy services supplied by an electric corporation
or non-utility supplier and used within the City’s boundaries;

(3)	Gas services supplied by a gas corporation or non-utility
supplier which is transported either through pipes or by mobile
transport and used within the City’s boundaries; and

(4)	Cable television services used within the City’s boundaries.

Several exemptions to the tax are expressly provided upon
adequate proof to the Tax Administrator. First, persons who receive
Low Income Rate Assistance (“LIRA”) from a gas or electrical
corporation would be exempt from the tax on gas or electrical utility
usage. Second, persons who receive “Universal Lifeline Service”
from a telephone corporation would be exempt from paying the tax
on basic telephone services. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt additional classes of persons or
utilities. Finally, the tax would not be levied against persons or
entities exempt by law including local government agencies and
public schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider.
For each type of utility service taxed, taxation would be limited to
a maximum of $1,000.00 maximum per year for a particular utility.

The utility users tax is a general tax. All revenue generated by
the tax would go to the City’s general fund to provide essential
governmental services including, but not limited to: police, fire, public
works, parks and recreation, and other essential government
services. It is estimated that the tax will generate approximately
$1,100,000.00 of the City’s general fund budget of Seventeen Million
Dollars ($17,000,000.00) for fiscal year 2002-2003. The tax as
proposed in Measure X is identical to the present utility users tax,
approved by the voters in 1997. Voter approval of this Measure
would amend the City’s present utility users tax by extending it to
July 2007. This measure must be approved by a majority of the
voters.

<impartialend>