IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “C”

The City of Riverside administers the City’s public library system. The
published mission of the Riverside Public Library is to foster the growth of
an informed community by providing books and other library resources,
promoting personal competency in seeking and evaluating information
and presenting quality programs in a welcoming environment.

The Library is primarily funded by a combination of property tax revenues
received by the City from the State and the City's genera! fund. According to commonly used public library standards and the City’s adopted
General Plan standards, the current libraries within the City, which
collectively are 85,320 square feet, are undersized for the City’s population.

If approved, this measure will authorize the City Council of the City of
Riverside to annually levy a special tax on or with respect to parcels of
property in the City of Riverside in an amount not to exceed $19 per
parcel for a period not to exceed 10 years. The funds generated would be

solely used to provide additional funding to the Library to increase the
operating hours of the Library’s current five branches by at lease twelve
hours per week, increase after-school programs for children by at least
forty hours per week, provide at least 5,000 more books and printed
material every year, provide 100 more computer stations and provide
matching funds to establish the City’s eligibility for State of California
Library Construction and Renovation funds for the construction of
new library facilities.

The Riverside County Tax Collector, using the property tax rolls, would
collect the special tax beginning in the 2002-2003 fiscal year. The Tax
Collector would provide a report of the revenues generated to the City of
Riverside. The City estimates that the proposed measure would generate approximately $1,254,400 each year. When this money is transferred to the City, the funds would be segregated from the other funds of the City and would not be part of its general fund. Under state law, the
City could use the funds generated only for the Library purposes outlined
above.

<impartialend>