<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

The Rohnert Park Municipal Code is the official collection of City of Rohnert Park
local laws. Measure S would add a new law that requires businesses and
residents to pay a telecommunications and video services tax. Majority voter
approval is required to put this tax into effect. The tax would be collected by
telecommunications and video services providers from the businesses and
residents, and paid to the City’s General Fund. Monies in the General Fund are
used for the ordinary and necessary operations of the City and are not earmarked
for a specific purpose. The General Fund is spent according to a budget adopted
by the City Council.

The proposed tax on residents is 4% of their bills for both traditional telephones
and cell phones, and for cable television. The proposed tax on businesses is 6%
of their bills for both traditional telephones and cell phones, and cable television. If a resident or business does not receive cable television service, the resident or
business does not pay a tax on this service. Residents who are 65 years of age or
older, and residents of very-low income are exempt from paying the tax. A person
with a very-low income is a person whose income is less than 50% of the median
income for Sonoma County. Non-profit corporations organized under section
501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code are exempt from the tax. The tax on a
resident's telephone bills totaling $50.00, will be $2.00. The tax on a business’
telephone bills totaling $100.00, will be $6.00.

Since the proposed tax is to be collected by the telephone services and cable
television services providers, the amount of the tax will appear on the bills for
these services. Interest will be charged on taxes that are not paid on time. If taxes
continue to be delinquent, a penalty can be imposed. The City of Rohnert Park
also may take other legal actions to make sure that the tax is paid.

This tax may be temporarily reduced and imposed at a lower rate by resolution of
the City Council. Each such reduction would be in effect for a time period
determined by the City Council. At the conclusion of that period of time, the tax
would be imposed at the full rate. The ordinance that Measure S submits to the
voters, provides that voter approval is not required when the tax goes back to the
original rate, after a period of temporary reduction.

A "yes” vote on Measure S means that the Telecommunications and Video
Services Tax will become the law in the City of Rohnert Park.

A “no” vote on Measure S means that the Telecommunications and Video
Services Tax will not become the law in the City of Rohnert Park.

<impartialend>