<impartial>

City of Santa Cruz

Impartial Analysis by City Attorney

Currently the City of Santa Cruz imposes a utility users tax. The City’s Utility Users Tax Ordinance which authorizes the tax was originally adopted by the City Council on May 8, 1984 and went into effect on July 1, 1984.  Since that time the City has continuously levied this tax.  The current tax rate, which has been in effect since October 1, 1991, is 7 percent.  The utility payments which are taxed pursuant to the ordinance currently include payments for electricity, gas, cable television, telephone, water, refuse collection and sewer. 
This initiative, if adopted by a majority of the voters, would serve to immediately repeal the City’s Utility Users Tax Ordinance thereby prohibiting the City from continuing to collect utility users taxes from its residents and automatically terminating the City’s receipt of utility user tax revenue. 
Utility users tax revenues are deposited in the General Fund, the City’s general operating fund.  The tax revenue is used to support the City’s daily operations including many public services provided by various City departments including the Police Department, the Fire Department, the Public Works Department, the Parks and Recreation Department, the Planning and Community Development Department and the City/County Library.  In addition, the tax revenue is used to support administrative services necessary to the City’s operation including services provided by the City’s Personnel Department, Finance Department, City Manager’s Department and City Attorney’s office.  General tax revenues are also used to support community-based nonprofit social service providers.  If the utility tax is repealed, the City will permanently lose this revenue.  As explained in the Finance Director’s Fiscal Analysis, unless a replacement revenue source is identified, the repeal of the utility tax will therefore require the City to cut future annual budgets by at least $8.4 million on a permanent basis.
Detailed information concerning the City’s budget is a matter of public record and is available at City Hall and at the Library.


<impartialend>