<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “O”

Summary

The measure proposes the following:

►	The imposition of a four year tax commencing July 1,2003 and terminating June 30,2007.

►	The rate of the tax is 4%.

►	The tax will be imposed on telephone, electrical, gas and cable services.

►	The tax will be collected by the service providers and remitted to the City on a monthly basis.

►	Exemptions will be made for qualified, tow-income individuals on gas, telephone and electrical services.

General Tax

This measure proposes a general tax on utility services. The tax may not be imposed unless the measure is approved by a majority of the voters in the
election.

Use of Proceeds

The proceeds of the tax will be placed into tie City's general fund and may be used for general government purposes including, but not limited to,
maintaining or increasing the number of police officers, fire fighters, paramedics and other city staff; maintaining or improving recreation, planning
and building and safety services; maintaining or improving maintenance of the city’s parks, streets and sidewalks, and/or acquiring land for additional
public parks, roads, and other necessary improvements.

Term

The tax will be imposed for a four year term commencing July 1,2003 and terminating June 30,2007. The tax may be terminated or suspended by the
City Council during the term. However, the term cannot be increased without voter approval.

Rate

The tax rate is 4%. There are no “built-in" automatic cost of living increases. The rate may be temporarily reduced by the City Council. However, the
rate cannot be increased without voter approval.

Services

The tax will be imposed only on telephone, electrical, gas and cable services. It will be collected by the utility companies and remitted to tie City on a
monthly basis. The tax cannot be applied to additional utility services without voter approval.

Exemptions will be provided to qualified, low-income individuals on gas, telephone and electrical services. These exemptions will be based on the
same criteria as the California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE) Program utilized by Southern California Edison and Southern California Gas
Company to provide discounted rates to eligible low-income residential customers. Exemptions on telephone services for qualified, low-income
individuals will be based on the same criteria as Verizon’s Lifeline Program which provides discounted rates for eligible low-income residential
customers. By utilizing the above exemptions and criteria, the City should not incur any additional administrative cost associated with processing
such exemptions since the utility companies make the above determinations for their own billing purposes.

In addition, the tax will not apply to those utility company charges related to late payments, returned checks or collection charges or to any person exempted from the tax under any applicable federal or state law or regulation.

<impartialend>