

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “P”

Legal

The City currently imposes a tax on users of utilities (the “UUT”). The voters approved the existing UUT, at a maximum rate of 6%, in November of 1996. Utilities subject to the UUT include: water, gas, electricity, telephone, cellular telephone, sewer, cable television and wireless pay television. Utility users pay the UUT with their utility bills. In June, 2001, the City Council temporarily decreased the tax rate on electricity and gas to 5.33%. In June, 2002, as part of the budget, the City Council continued the decrease as to electricity. 

This measure would repeal the UUT. It would prohibit the City from adopting a UUT in the future. It would take effect on July 1, 2003. The City could not collect the UUT as of that date. This measure could not be amended or repealed without an election. Under State law, the City could not adopt any level of UUT without voter approval if the existing UUT is
repealed.


A “YES” vote is a vote to repeal the existing UUT.

A “NO” vote is a vote to keep the existing UUT.


FISCAL

The UUT is the City’s largest single source of revenue. The UUT raises about $9 million per year. It is projected to generate $9.4 million in fiscal year 2002-03. It provides about 20% of the City’s General Fund budget. The City’s General Fund pays for a broad range of City services. It includes most or all of the budgets of the Police, Fire, Public Works, Community and Economic Development, Finance, Administrative Services, Human Resources, City Clerk and City Attorney Departments. The General fund also provides subsidies to help pay for the Library and Parks and Recreation Departments. 

If this measure passes, the City Council would have to account for the loss of UUT revenues in future budgets. Levels of services to the public would be impacted. The City Council would have to decide the nature and amounts of budget and service cuts in future budget actions. However, the City Council would have restrictions on its decisions:

a) Funds outside the General Fund may not legally be transferred to the General Fund to replace lost UUT revenues;
b) The General Fund pays for some services which are required to be maintained by state and federal laws and regulations.
c) Certain basic functions are required to legally maintain a city government under state law; 
d; Some General Fund Revenues come from fees charged for services received, and cutting those services would also eliminate the fee revenues. 