<impartial>


Impartial Analysis by City Attorney
This ballot measure, if adopted by City voters, would amend the Capitola Municipal Code by raising the transient occupancy tax rate from the current rate of 9.5 percent to 11 percent.  The transient occupancy tax (also referred to as the “Visitor Services Fee”) is a tax paid by hotel and motel guests who spend fewer than 30 consecutive days in a hotel or motel in the City.  The tax is on the room rent paid.  For example, a hotel guest currently pays $9.50 tax per night on a $100.00 hotel room.  If the ballot measure is adopted in its entirety, the hotel guest would pay $11.00 tax per night on a $100.00 hotel room. 


The ballot measure would require the City to dedicate the tax revenue received by the City as a result of one percent of the tax rate increase to a special “Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund” account. All tax revenue deposited in the Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund account would be used exclusively for the promotion of tourism in the County of Santa Cruz.  In addition, the ballot measure would require the City to annually contract with the Santa Cruz County Conference and Visitors Council and the money deposited in the Conference and Visitors Promotion Fund would be disbursed periodically to the Santa Cruz County Conference and Visitors Council for its use in promoting tourism within the County. The ballot measure would also require the Santa Cruz County Conference and Visitors Council, as a condition to receiving this funding from the City, to submit an annual accounting demonstrating that the funds provided by the City have been used for their intended purpose.  Because this one percent portion of the proposed transient occupancy tax rate increase would be imposed for a specific purpose, this portion of the ballot measure proposes a special tax as defined by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.  Accordingly, for the special tax to be adopted, the ballot measure would need to receive a two-thirds “yes” vote. 


The tax revenue received by the City as a result of the remaining .5 percent of the tax rate increase would be deposited in the City’s General Fund. Currently 100 percent of transient occupancy tax revenues, computed at the rate of 9.5 percent, are dedicated to the City’s General Fund.  If adopted, the General Fund transient occupancy tax rate would therefore increase from 9.5 percent to 10 percent.  Because this .5 percent portion of the proposed transient occupancy tax rate increase would be imposed for general governmental purposes, this portion of the ballot measure proposes a “general tax” as defined by Article XIIIC of the California Constitution.  Accordingly, for the general tax to be adopted, the ballot measure would need to receive a simple majority vote. If the ballot measure received a majority vote but failed to receive a two-thirds vote, only the general tax would go into effect and the overall tax rate would be 10 percent rather than 11 percent.


<impartialend>