<impartial>

MEASURE “E”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Chapter 3.54 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code contains the City's Transient Lodging
Tax provisions. It is substantially similar in wording to the Transient Lodging Tax Ordinances
of numerous California cities and counties.

Despite the general uniformity of municipal law in this area, the Fourth District Court of
Appeal has strongly indicated in a recent court decision that the City’s Transient Lodging
Tax as set forth in Chapter 3.54 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code is legally suspect for
vagueness and inconsistency, thus rendering it unconstitutional when challenged.

As a result of the passage of Proposition 218 by the voters of the State of California on
November 6,1996, Article XIIIC and D of the California Constitution was amended to include,
among other conditions, the following: “No local government may impose, extend or
increase any general tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved
by a majority vote.”

On July 15, 2002, in response to that recent Court of Appeal decision, the City of San
Bernardino adopted a new transient lodging tax ordinance codified in Chapter 3.55 of the
San Bernardino Municipal Code which, if approved by a majority vote of the electorate, would
permit the City to continue to collect and use the revenues from its room tax on hotel
occupants.

The City of San Bernardino’s transient lodging tax imposes a ten percent (10%) room tax
on hotel occupants. The tax is normally paid to the operator of the hotel at the time payment
for the room rental is made. The hotel operator is required to collect the tax and the operator
remits the tax to the City of San Bernardino on a monthly basis. “Hotel” is defined as any
commercial establishment furnishing lodging space in exchange for monetary
compensation. “Lodging space” is defined as meaning one or more rooms used or intended
to be used for dwelling or sleeping purposes. “Transient” is defined as any person who, for
a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, exercises occupancy or is entitled
to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or contract.

The estimated amount of money to be received by the General Fund of the City of San
Bernardino for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2002 as a result of the transient lodging tax
is approximately Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000.00).

A “yes” vote would approve the measure and permit the City to continue to collect and
use its ten percent (10%) room tax on hotel occupants.

A “no” vote would reject the measure and would mean that the City’s expected General
Fund revenues for the fiscal year beginning July 1,2002 would be subject to being reduced
by approximately Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000.00).

<impartialend>