<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

Background. In 1986 the State’s voters approved Proposition 62 to
require voter approval of local general taxes. California courts found
Proposition 62 unconstitutional and the City therefore did not seek voter
approval of a 1991 amendment to its utility users tax ordinance to increase
the maximum tax for business taxpayers from $175 per year to $500. The
California Supreme Court recently overturned those earlier decisions and
upheld Proposition 62. Accordingly, the City Council now proposes this
measure to allow the voters to validate the 1991 amendment. The
ordinance states that doing so will allow the City to maintain current tax
revenues and assist the City in funding general governmental services in
light of increased demands for City services following the terrorist
incidents of September 11, 2001 and further reductions in state funding for
City services expected to result from the state’s current budget deficit.

In the early 1990’s the Legislature balanced the State budget by
taking property taxes away from cities and counties. From 1991 through
2001, the State took $5,980,656 in property taxes from Pacifica. To
partially replace this revenue, the City increased the annual ceiling on
utility taxes paid by businesses in the City. No change was made to the
utility tax paid by City residents. The increased ceiling on business utility
taxes contributes approximately $165,000 per year to the City’s General
Fund, which pays for general City services, primarily police and fire
services.

The Measure. The measure would validate and readopt the 1991
ordinance mentioned above, as well as a 1993 ordinance which reaffirmed
that earlier action, and validate taxes previously collected under that
ordinance. The measure could protect the City from refund claims from
businesses based on arguments that the recent court decisions upholding
Proposition 62 should retroactively invalidate taxes imposed before that
court decision was made. The ordinance authorizes the City Council to
repeal or reduce the utility users tax or to amend the ordinance in other
ways that do not increase tax rates. However, any tax increase would
require voter approval.

<impartialend>