<impartial>

MEASURE “O”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

This proposed tax, if passed by two-thirds of those voting, will raise between $1.2
and $1.5 million. The money may only be used for the maintenance and operations of
the City’s libraries (which includes buying materials for library patrons, including books)
and to pay one-half of the annual debt service on the bond that was used to construct
the Feldheym Library (or $133,150 per year, whichever amount is less).

It will cost single family residential parcel owners $20 per year (about $1.67 per
month). An exemption exists for seniors whose annual income levels are below a
certain amount. In addition, those who are disabled will also be exempt from paying it.
This tax will not be paid by any person receiving an exemption from the City’s Service
User’s Tax.

The tax will automatically end in ten years.

Specifics

This measure would help fund the City’s libraries for the next ten years by imposing
an annual library special tax in the following manner:

•	$20	per	parcel containing one single family residence;

•	$20	per	residential unit in a condominium project;

•	$13	per	residential	unit per parcel for all other residentially-used or

designated parcels;

•	$50	per	parcel of non-residentially-used or designated property in the City.

This tax will not be levied upon any parcel containing one single family residence for
that parcel or upon any residential unit in a condominium project for that unit if: 1) any
owner is 62 1/2 years old or older, does not exceed an annual designated income level
(currently for a residence with one occupant - $26,420, for a family of 2 - $34,480, for a
family of 3 - $37,540, and gradually increasing thereafter in increments based upon the
size of the family) and whose application for exemption is approved by the City; or, 2)
any owner meets the criteria of disability by the Social Security Administration’s
Supplemental Income program for the Aged, Blind and Disabled and whose application
for exemption is approved by the City.

For the first two years of this tax, the City will be required to appropriate, annually, a
minimum of $2,110,300 (in addition to the money raised by the tax) for the maintenance
and operations of the City’s libraries. After the first year, the tax would be indexed
annually by June 1, based upon the consumer price index. The tax would be imposed
after the second year only if the City appropriates the required amount of money (+ or -
the cost of living adjustment) or at least $2,110,300, whichever is greater (in addition to
the money raised by the tax), to the libraries for their maintenance and operations costs.

Such appropriation will insure that the money raised by the tax is additional money for
the libraries.

A vote “for the ordinance” approves the measure and authorizes imposition of a
special tax for ten years to help fund the City’s libraries.

A vote “against the ordinance” rejects the measure and the City’s libraries would
not receive the proposed additional funds. 

<impartialend>