<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE D

The Petaluma City Council has placed Measure D on the November 4,2003 ballot
asking voters to adopt an ordinance imposing a tax on the use of gas and electric
service for the purpose of repairing and reconstructing the City's existing streets
and not for the construction of new streets. Said ordinance sets forth the type of
tax, the amount of the tax, and manner of collection, exemptions, refunds, use of
proceeds and other related matters. A copy of the ordinance is in the sample
ballot. Measure D would only become effective if a companion measure, Measure
C, is approved, amending the Petaluma Charter of the City of Petaluma to permit
the levying and collection of such a tax for this specific purpose.

Measure D would approve the imposition of a special tax on the use of gas and
electricity for 20 years at a rate not to exceed 5% of each monthly charge for gas
and electric service. The measure provides for an annual cap for non-residential
users of $15,000 and an exemption for service users who participate in PG&E's
CARE program. Any non-residential service user that paid more than the annual
cap in any year may file for a refund, as may other users, residential and non-
residential, if they were incorrectly required to pay the tax or were overcharged.

The first five years that the tax will be in effect, the rate of the tax will be 5% of each
monthly charge for the service. Thereafter, the City Council would review the rate
annually and could adjust it by resolution. The Council could not, however, set a
rate that would exceed 5%. The utility users tax would be imposed only on gas
and electric service and not on any other utility services. The utility users tax
would be in effect for and terminate automatically after twenty (20) years. The tax
would only be used to pay for curb-to-curb repair and reconstruction of existing
streets and not for the construction of new streets.

Measure D would only become effective if approved by two thirds of the voters
voting on the measure and if companion Measure C is approved by a majority of
the voters voting on Measure C.

<impartialend>