<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE I

This Municipal Code amendment, if passed, would change the City’s
Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”) by increasing the rate paid by hotel
guests at Group Meeting Hotels by 1%, or from 12.5% to 13.5%.

Your “yes” vote means that the City’s TOT would be changed in the
way described. Your “no” vote means there would be no change to the
current law.

The TOT, established by the City in 1967, applies to guests who stay
at hotels for less than 28 days. TOT rates vary by city including, for
example, La Quinta-11%, Palm Desert-9%, Los Angeles-14%, and
Anaheim-l5%. Currently in Palm Springs, TOT of 12.5% is charged to
guests of Group Meeting Hotels and 11.5% is charged to guests of all
other hotels. The current rates were established by Palm Springs voters
in 2001.

Group Meeting Hotels are those with at least 125 rooms which
directly benefit from City tourism promotional activities, and include
hotels such as the Hyatt, Riviera Resort, Wyndham, and Hilton.
Currently, there are 15 Group Meeting Hotels in the City. This measure
would increase the TOT at Group Meeting Hotels only and would not
affect the rate at other hotels.

As to how TOT is spent, currently the first 7% of the TOT collected is allocated to the City’s Community Promotion Fund and used to promote the Palm Springs tourism industry. Such funds may be spent for specified uses, including: promoting the Palm Springs tourism industry, maintenance or operation of the Palm Springs Convention Center, and special
events.

All other TQT funds collected are used for the City's general operational expenses. Such expenses include police, fire, parks, and library services.

According to the City’s Finance Department, this measure is
expected to increase the amount of General Fund revenue raised by the
TOT by an estimated $600,000 annually.

Under Proposition 218, enacted by the voters in 1996, a tax imposed
for general fund purposes is a general tax and requires by over
50% of the voters. Since this measure, which can only be amended by
the voters, affects TOT changes, this measure will likely require
additional approval by over one-half of the voters to take effect.

<impartialend>