<impartial>

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City charges a one-half cent sales tax to
help pay for the transportation projects described in a spending plan
approved by the voters in 1989. This tax will expire on April 1,2010.

The San Francisco Transportation Authority directs use of the
sales tax money. It can spend up to $160 million ($160,000,000)
per year for the approved transportation projects, and can issue up
to $742 million ($742,000,000) in bonds.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition K is an ordinance that would continue the one-half cent sales tax, and replace the current transportation spending plan with a new, 30-year plan. Under the new
plan, the money would be used for:

•	Maintenance of local streets;

•	Transportation for the elderly and disabled;

•	Construction of a Central Subway;

•	Upgrades to the bus system, including new buses, stations
and dedicated lanes;

•	A Caltrain extension to a new Transbay Terminal;

•	Projects to improve pedestrian and bicycle safety;

•	Support for regional transportation systems (BART, Caltrain,
and ferries); and

•	Replacing the roadway to Golden Gate Bridge (Doyle Drive).

The Transportation Authority could modify the plan if voters
approved. The sales tax would continue as long as the new or
modified plan is in effect.

The Transportation Authority would continue to direct use of the
sales tax. It could spend up to $485,175 million ($485,175,000)
per year and issue up to $1.88 billion ($1,880,000,000) in bonds,
to be repaid from the one-half cent sales tax.

A two-thirds majority vote is required to approve this measure.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “Yes,” you want to continue
the one-half cent sales tax to pay for transportation projects
described in a new 30-year spending plan, or future plans, and
increase the amount of money the Transportation Authority may
spend and borrow to pay for these projects.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “No,” you do not want to make
these changes.

<impartialend>