<impartial>




IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE
YOUNTVILLE TOWN ATTORNEY
PROPOSITION C

“Shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the Town’s Transient
Occupancy Tax (Hotel Tax) from 10% to 12%?”

The Town of Yountville presently imposes a Transient Occupancy
Tax of 10% of the rent charged to temporary occupants of hotels,
motels or similar types of lodging facilities under Municipal Code
section 3.16.030. The last increase in_the Town’s Transient
Occupancy Tax was in July 1982. This Proposition proposes to
increase the Transient Occupancy Tax from 10% to 12%.

Only occupants of lodging facilities for 30 days or fewer are subject to
the tax. Therefore, the tax is assessed only to persons who
temporarily rent lodging space in the Town and does not apply to
persons who rent homes, apartments or similar permanent living
accommodations for periods exceeding 30 days.

The tax is a debt owed by the person renting the space, but is collected
by the lodging facility operator and paid to the Town. All revenues
from the tax become part of the Town’s General Fund, which may be
used for any municipal purpose approved by the Town Council.

Under Proposition 218, adopted by the California voters in 1996, the
Town may not impose or increase any general tax, including a
Transient Occupancy Tax, until such tax is submitted to the electorate
and approved by a majority vote.

Fiscal Impact: The amount of the revenue generated from a 2%
increase in the Transient Occupancy Tax will vary from year to year,
depending upon the rents received by lodging facilities. Based upon
current projections, a 2% increase will generate approximately
$420,000 for Fiscal Year 2002-2003.

A “Yes” vote favors increasing the rate of the Transient Occupancy
Tax imposed on transients in the Town of Yountville from 10% to
12%.

A “No” vote opposes increasing the rate of the Transient Occupancy
Tax imposed on transients in the Town of Yountville and maintains
the Transient Occupancy Tax at 10%.

<impartialend>