<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W
Prepared by City Attorney

(The Stockton Safe Neighborhood, Gang and Drug
Prevention, Police/Fire Response Measure)

The Stockton City Council has placed Measure W on the
November 2, 2004, ballot asking voters to adopt an ordinance
that would allow the City to impose a special transaction and
use tax of 0.25% (one-quarter of one percent) of the retail
sales price. The proceeds of this tax would be used solely to
maintain and improve the City’s police and fire protection
services.

Effective this year, the State Legislature amended the
California Revenue and Taxation Code to authorize local
governments to seek voter approval for an increase in the
local transactions and use tax (usually referred to as “sales
tax”). Measure W, if approved by the voters, would adopt an
ordinance increasing the sales tax by a quarter cent.

Revenue from the tax would be placed into a special account
that could be used only to pay for the needs of the Police and
Fire Departments, including salaries, equipment, and capital
improvements, as provided for in an Expenditure Plan
approved by the City Council. The revenue would be split
evenly between the departments, although the Council could
alter that division as departmental needs change. According
to the Program Guidelines approved by the City Council for
the use of the tax revenue, the division of funds between the
departments would be in the proportion of 50% to Fire and
50% to Police and can never exceed 60% for one and 40%
for the other, in addition, the City would hire an independent
auditor to review revenue and expenditure annually to ensure
that funds are used solely for public safety services as
provided for in the Expenditure Plan, and that the City
complies with established accounting regulations and
practices. Pursuant to the Guidelines, the City would also
establish a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to provide
additional independent review of revenue and expenditures.
Every five years, the City Council would review the use of
revenue from the tax and report on its effect on the provision •
of police and fire protection services.

A “yes” vote for Measure W is a vote to adopt the ordinance
increasing the local transaction and use tax by one-quarter of
one cent. A “no” vote, is a vote against adopting the
ordinance.

To pass; two-thirds of the votes cast on Measure W must be
“yes” votes.

<impartialend>