

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Measure U is a proposed initiative measure that would change the Utility Users Tax
Ordinance found in Sections 3.08.200, et seq. of the Culver City Municipal Code. The
utility users tax (UUT) is an 11% tax on the amount utility customers within the City pay
for water, telephone, electricity, gas, and cable television services. Residents who are
sixty (60) years of age or older and whose income meets certain criteria, or residents
who are considered disabled under certain criteria, are exempt from the UUT. The
revenue from the UUT is placed in the City's General Fund, which is used for general
governmental operations, including some of the funding for police, fire, street
maintenance, parks and other city services. The UUT comprises approximately 19% of

the General Fund revenue.

If a majority of voters approve Measure U, the UUT will be repealed within sixty (60)
days after the enactment of the Measure, unless the City Council reduces the current
UUT for each utility service to a rate not-to-exceed an average of the rates imposed for
service by the ten incorporated cities in Los Angeles County closest in population size to
the City of Culver City, including cities that do not impose a UUT. In addition, every five
years, the UUT would again be subject to repeal, unless the City Council reduces the
UUT according to the method stated above. If the UUT is repealed, the General fund,
which is approximately $59.8 million, would be decreased by approximately $11 million.
Reduction in the UUT, under the method described above, would result in a decrease in
the General Fund of approximately $9 million.

Measure U reiterates current law giving the City Council authority "to repeal the tax,
lower the tax rate, reduce the basis upon which the tax is charged, and reduce those
subject to it," without voter approval. The proposed Measure also changes the method
for providing UUT refunds by eliminating the requirement for claim submittal.

