<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

The City Council of the City of Pinole has placed Measure P on the November 2, 2004 ballot to ask voters to consider extending the existing Utility Users Tax ("UUT") for an additional eight (8) years. Measure P would only become effective if approved by a majority of voters casting a vote on the Measure at the November 2, 2004 election.
The UUT was originally approved by a vote of the people of Pinole in 1998 and codified in Chapter 3.26 of the Pinole Municipal Code. As approved, the tax was set at eight percent (8%) of the cost of electric, gas, and telephone utility service. Utility service providers collect the tax as part of the monthly service bill and remit the proceeds to the City. As a general tax, the revenue from the UUT is placed in the City's General Fund and is available to support the provision of general municipal services. Under Section 3.26.180 of the Municipal Code, the UUT will expire six years after it initially became effective, or December 1, 2004.

The City Council placed Measure P on the ballot to ask the voters to extend the existing UUT of 8% for an additional eight years, to December 1, 2012, at which time it would terminate automatically and without further action by either the City Council or the voters of Pinole. If approved, Measure P would amend Section 3.26.180 of the Municipal Code to substitute the new termination date of the UUT. All other aspects of the UUT would remain unchanged.

Currently, the tax generates about $1.7 Million annually. This amount is approximately 17% of the City's general fund. If the tax is not approved by the voters, the City would have to implement immediate reductions in general municipal services.

By placing Measure P on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of the California Constitution (adopted by Proposition 218), which requires the voters to approve an amended ordinance, which affects amount of the tax, the manner of collection, and other related matters. A copy of the proposed ordinance is printed in the sample ballot.

The UUT extension proposed in Measure P will not become effective unless the Measure is approved by at least a majority of those voting on the Measure.

<impartialend>