<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
UTILITY USERS TAX MEASURE S

This measure, if approved by more than 50% of the voters casting votes
in this election, will enact Ordinance 2004-013, revising Chapter 3.40 of
the San Pablo Municipal Code, the City's Utility User's Tax Ordinance.
This general tax was first imposed in 1983, and currently sets forth a tax
rate of eight percent (8%). This measure would amend and modernize
the City’s Utility User's Tax, and decrease such tax rate to seven (7%)
percent. The current ordinance imposes the tax on utility bills for gas,
electric, cable television, water and telephone services. Under this
measure, the City will collect the tax on gas, electric, water, telephone
and video services.

In addition to lowering the tax rate, this measure would formally provide
for financial hardship exemptions from the tax for low income San Pablo
residents, for the "life necessity" utilities of gas, electricity and water,
should the East Bay Municipal Utilities District agree to collect the tax on
behalf of the City. Such exemptions are not currently set forth in the
existing ordinance.

The measure makes changes in definition sections to correspond to new
technology and changes in state and federal law. Currently, for example,
all cellular phone providers except one have agreed to collect the tax.
The ordinance amends the code so that all cell phone and other
telephone providers must collect the tax on all intrastate, interstate and
international phone calls. The cable television bill tax would be assessed
on other video providers as well, including satellite television services.
Such changes require that the amended ordinance be placed on the
ballot pursuant to Proposition 218.

The reduced tax will continue to be collected from the utility companies.
Should the utility fail to pay the city in a timely fashion, penalties and
interest will be assessed. The city's tax administrator may conduct audits to determine compliance with the chapter. Overpaid taxes will be
refunded. Anyone may appeal the assessment of his or her tax.

This reduced tax may not be increased or extended without a vote of the
people, but the City Council may otherwise amend the ordinance without
a popular vote. The utility user's tax is a general tax whose proceeds go
into the City's General Fund and whose uses are not restricted to a
particular purpose.

<impartialend>