<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 04-A

SPECIAL TAX FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES

The City Council (the “City Council”) of the City of Lancaster (the “City”), on December 9, 2003 adopted
Resolution 03-438 submitting a ballot measure to the voters at the General Municipal Election to be held on April 13,
2004. The ballot measure provides for the levy of a special tax in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) on each
parcel of real property in the City as shown on the current assessor’s parcel map, but excluding those parcels owned
by governmental entities (the “Measure"). The special tax will be collected by the County of Los Angeles (the
“County") on behalf of the City in the same manner and subject to the same penalties and charges as with other taxes
collected by the County. The proceeds of the special tax will be deposited in a separate account of the City and
expended for the sole purpose of paying the costs of ten (10) additional Sheriff’s Deputies.

The contract with the County for law enforcement services provides that the City may have additional Deputies
assigned to the City at a cost of $110,000 per Deputy (including salary, benefits, overhead, supervisorial costs, etc.)
for the first year. The 10 Deputies will cost the City approximately $1,100,000. The City estimates that based on
42,486 parcels, the special tax will produce approximately $1,062,150 in total revenues. The number of parcels will
increase as property is developed in the future. Any cost of providing the 10 Deputies in excess of the revenues
provided by the special tax will be paid from other funds of the City. The amount of the Special Tax, if approved, is
fixed and cannot be increased without a separate two-thirds (2/3) voter approval.

In order for the Measure to be approved, two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast must be in favor of the Measure.

A “yes” vote on the Measure is a vote for the levy of Special Tax and the addition of 10 Sheriff’s Deputies.

A “no" vote on the Measure is a vote against the levy of the Special Tax and the addition of 10 Sheriff’s Deputies.

<impartialend>