<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

Measure G asks the voters whether the City of Arcata should
adopt a utility users tax. The tax would be imposed for four years
at the rate of three percent (3%) of the usage of the following utility
services: (1) international, interstate and intrastate telephone communication services; (2) electrical energy services supplied by
an electric corporation or non-utility supplier and used within the
City's boundaries; (3) gas services supplied by a gas corporation
or non-utility supplier which is transported either through pipes or
by mobile transport and used within the City's boundaries; (4) water
services supplied by the City to a user located within the City's
boundaries; (5) wastewater collection services provided by the City's
wastewater collection system; and (6) cable television services used
within the City's boundaries.

Several exemptions to the tax are expressly provided upon
adequate proof to the Tax Administrator. First, persons who receive
Low Income Rate Assistance ("LIRA") from a gas or electrical
corporation would be exempt from the tax on gas or electrical utility
usage. Second, persons who receive "universal lifeline service"
from a telephone corporation would be exempt from paying the tax
on basic telephone services. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt additional classes of persons or
utilities. Finally, the tax would not be levied against persons or
entities exempt by law including local governmental agencies, public
schools and Humboldt State University.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider.
For each service user, the combined total tax would be limited to
a maximum of $1,000.00 per fiscal year, upon adequate proof to
the Tax Administrator that taxes will reach or exceed the $1,000.00
maximum for a particular user.

The tax as proposed in this Measure is similar to the present
utility users tax, adopted by the voters in 2000 and expiring on
November 30, 2004, with the exception of the taxation of telephone
communication services. The present utility users tax levies the
tax on intrastate landline telephone communication services. This
Measure would additionally levy the tax on international, interstate
and intrastate telecommunication services, including landline
and wireless telephonic communications regardless of the radio
spectrum used.

The utility users tax is a general tax and all revenue generated
by the tax would go to the City's general fund to fund essential
governmental services including, but not limited to, police, public
works, parks and recreation and other essential government services
provided by the City. It is estimated that the tax will generate
approximately $500,000.00.

Voter approval of this Measure would adopt a new utility users
tax as described above, effective December 1,2004. The new utility
users tax would terminate automatically on November 30, 2008, four
years after its adoption. This Measure must be approved by a
majority of the voters.

<impartialend>