<impartial>

MEASURE “Y”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

In 1987, prior to the City’s incorporation, the voters in Zone M of San Bernardino County
Service Area 38 approved a flat-rate special tax for the Paramedic Emergency
Services Program, in the amount of $24 per residence and $35 per commercial unit. In
1999, the City detached from 38 and assumed local control and responsibility for
fire protection and paramedic services. The 1987 tax generated within the City’s
boundaries is now collected by the City, and is expended for paramedic services.

The 1987 tax was enacted to pay for operation and maintenance of equipment, salaries
and benefits, and other expenses of paramedic services. Initially the tax was adequate
to fund these services, but since 1987 costs have increased, and the tax no longer fully
funds paramedic services, which are now subsidized by funds earmarked for other fire
protection services.

Unlike emergency fire and police services, the City does not have a legal obligation to
continue to provide paramedic services, or to maintain the current level of service. The
City also could subsidize paramedic service with general fund revenues which are
currently being used to fund other City services.

In July 2002, the City Council directed that a study be prepared, to determine current
and future anticipated costs of paramedic services, and to evaluate whether the City
could continue to provide paramedic services with the 1987 tax revenues. The study
determined that in fiscal year 2003-04, the 1987 tax will generate approximately
$416,000 citywide, which is $188,000 less than the actual cost of providing these
services in the City, and that this deficit will continue to grow as costs of paramedic
service increase.

In placing this Measure on the ballot, the stated goals of the City Council are to provide
a funding source adequate to continue current levels of service, including the City’s
ability to respond to emergency medical calls within an average of two to six minutes, to
purchase and maintain essential equipment, and ultimately, to provide paramedic
service from a new fire station located at Wildwood Canyon Road and 5th Street.

If approved by 2/3 of the voters, Measure Y will establish a new annual flat-rate special
tax which, together with the 1987 special tax, will result in the following total tax rate:

$52 per residential unit (an increase of $28 per year)

$78 per small commercial business (an increase of $43 per year)

$156 per large commercial business (an increase of $121 per year)

$3 per bed per $78 minimum for residential care facilities (an increase of at least $54 per year)

The tax revenues generated by this Measure will be restricted to the Paramedic
Emergency Services Program.

The new special tax is anticipated to fully fund paramedic service city-wide for
approximately ten years, after which time the City Council and the voters will determine
whether further increases in the tax will be necessary in order to continue to fund
paramedic service with special tax revenues. This special tax may only be increased by
a vote of the people.

<impartialend>