<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

King City currently imposes a two percent (2%) tax upon charges
for telephone, electricity, gas, gas used for cogeneration plant, water,
and cable television services in the City. This tax is commonly referred
to as a utility users’ tax. The tax was first implemented in 1993 and,
until 2002, the revenues raised by the tax went into the City’s general
fund used to provide many general City services such as public
works, recreation, and general administration. In 2002, the voters
of King City voted to require the City to use all revenue from the
utility users’ tax solely for the purpose of funding public safety,
including police and fire protection, in the City. The utility users tax
currently raises approximately $220,000 per year, all of which goes
to help fund police, fire, and other public safety functions in the City.

Measure G, which has qualified for the November 2, 2004 ballot
for consideration by the voters of King City, is one of three measures
on the ballot proposing to amend and update the City’s utility users'
tax ordinance. Measure G would amend the City Code by increasing
the tax rate to be applied to charges for telephone, electricity, gas,
gas used for cogeneration plant, water, and cable television services
in the City from the present two percent rate to tour percent for a
period of two years. At the end of those two years the increased
rate would sunset and automatically revert to the present two percent
which has been in effect since 1993.

The increased rate, if approved by voters, is anticipated to raise
an additional $220,000 per year, all of which would be required to
be allocated and used exclusively to help fund police and fire
protection in the City. This sum is equal to approximately 60% of
the revenue which the City is projected to lose in vehicle license
fees and state sales tax under the State Budget compromise in each
of the next two years.

Measure G will only take effect if approved by at least two-thirds
of the voters voting in the consolidated general election to be held
on November 2, 2004. If less than two-thirds of the voters vote in
favor of the measure, the City will continue to impose and collect
the tax at the two-percent rate. Whether the Measure passes or not,
all revenue from the utility users’ tax would continue to be dedicated
solely to support public safety services in the City.

<impartialend>