<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council has authorized the placement on the ballot a proposition seeking voter approval
of a measure that would amend the City's Municipal Code by raising the Transient Occupancy Tax
[TOT] from the current rate of 10.5% to 13%. The TOT is a tax paid by hotel and motel guests who
reside for one month or less in a hotel or motel in the City. Because the revenues derived from
raising the TOT rate would be dedicated for specific purposes, this ballot measure proposes a
special tax as defined by article XIIIC of the California Constitution. Accordingly, this ballot
measure will take effect only if passed by two-thirds of the City’s voters.

This ballot measure would require that one-half of all TOT revenues be allocated in the City
Manager’s budget for designated purposes. For every 13 cents projected for collection:

a.	Three quarters of a cent would go to a TOT Fire-Rescue Fund for the repair, replacement,
and improvement of fire-rescue facilities, equipment, and infrastructure, over and above
expenditure levels currently being used for such purposes;

b.	One quarter of a cent would go to a TOT Police Fund for Police facilities and equipment, over
and above expenditure levels currently being used for such purposes;

c.	Three quarters of a cent, up to $7,689,632, would go to the Police Department budget. Any
amount projected for collection exceeding $7,689,632 would go to the TOT Police Fund;

d.	Three quarters of a cent would go to a Community Infrastructure Fund for improvements to
neighborhood roads, Mission Bay, and Balboa Park; open space acquisition; and the development of a Parks Systems Master Plan;

e.	One-half cent would go to the TOT Library System Fund for Library System facility
improvements;

f.	One cent would go to the TOT Arts and Culture Fund for Arts and Culture projects, programs,
and support of the Arts and Culture Commission; and,

g.	Two and one-half cents would go to the Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund, from which
allocations shall be made to the Convention and Visitors Bureau, the Convention Center, and
other entities engaging in the promotion of San Diego as a tourist destination.

These allocations of TOT revenue may not be repealed or amended except by two-thirds vote of
the City's voters, but may be temporarily suspended in the event of a public emergency as
determined by two-thirds vote of the City Council. TOT revenues not subject to allocation may be
used for general governmental purposes according to the discretion of the City Council.

This ballot measure would create a Tourism Promotion Review Board composed of
representatives of the lodging and restaurant industries and the San Diego-Imperial Counties
Labor Council. This Board would have responsibilities over the budget of the Tourism Marketing
and Promotion Fund. Its budget would be submitted to the Council for approval, with the Council
having the final authority to approve the budget, subject only to certain minimum funding levels.


<impartialend>