<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K
BY CITY ATTORNEY

REGARDING PROPOSED INCREASE IN SALES TAX FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW AQUATIC RECREATION CENTER

The present sales tax rate in the City of Susanville is 7.25%.

This measure, if approved by a two-thirds vote of voters voting thereon,
would increase the sales tax rate in Susanville by a half cent. If this
measure passes, the sales tax rate in the City of Susanville will then be

7.75%.

If approved, the proceeds of said half cent sales tax increase will be
used for the construction costs of a new aquatic recreation center, as
follows: to acquire bond financing, in a principal sum not to exceed
$12,183,000.00, to construct the new aquatic recreation center. If
approved, said half cent sales tax increase will terminate July 1, 2034.
The proceeds of said half cent sales tax will be pledged to pay the
payments on the bond financing for the new aquatic recreation center.
The new aquatic recreation center shall be located within the City of
Susanville at 925 Sierra Road, Susanville, California. The City of
Susanville owns the land on which the new aquatic recreation center
will be built. The new aquatic recreation center will include a competition-
size swimming pool, therapy pool, offices, parking lot, tennis courts,
locker rooms, multipurpose rooms, restrooms and playground.

The proceeds of said half cent sales tax increase would not be used for
operations and maintenance of the new aquatic recreation center.
Operations and maintenance would be funded with fees paid by users
of the new aquatic recreation center; said fees will include but are not
limited to, recreation passes, season passes, rental of the facilities,
concessions, and user fees.

Because this measure is a special tax for a specific purpose, it will not
pass unless two-thirds of the voters voting on it vote yes.

A “YES” vote is a vote to approve the half-cent sales tax increase for
use in construction of the new aquatic recreation center.

A “NO” vote is a vote to not approve the half-cent sales tax increase.

<impartialend>