<impartial>

MEASURE “W”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Under Article Xlll(c) of the California Constitution, general law cities such as the City of
Colton are authorized to impose new general taxes or increase existing general taxes if
a proposed new levy or increase is approved by a majority of voters.

The passage of Measure W by a majority of voters in the City would enact Ordinance
No. 0-01-04. This ordinance authorizes the City to impose a utility user tax of four
percent (4%) for residential uses and six percent (6%) for commercial and industrial
uses. The utility services subject to the tax would be telephone, video services
(including cable television), electricity, natural gas, water, sewer service, and solid
waste disposal.

The proceeds from the utility user tax will go into the City’s General Fund to help offset
revenue lost due to the impacts of the State’s ongoing budget crisis. The general tax
revenue will be used to finance all types of general municipal services including, but not
limited to, parks and recreation, library, programs for children and senior citizens, street
maintenance, fire protection and law enforcement services.

Certain utility customers would be exempt from the utility user tax, including religious
and non-profit organizations (if exempt from taxation under state or federal law),
persons 65 years of age or older, persons with low or very low incomes according to
standards established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, and government entities.

If approved, the measure will add the necessary authorizing provisions to the Colton
Municipal Code and will authorize the City Council to implement any procedures
necessary for collection of the utility user tax. The utility user tax will be subject to an
annual review by the City Council and will “sunset” on June 30, 2011. In the future, the
tax rates can be increased only by a majority vote of the City’s voters.

A “yes” vote on the measure is a vote to approve and authorize the City to impose the
utility user tax. A “no” vote is a vote against imposing the utility user tax. In order for
the measure to pass, a majority of voters must vote “yes”.

<impartialend>