<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Background. The City of Huntington Park currently levies an annual assessment
to fund the maintenance and operation of street lighting and landscaping in the
City. This assessment is collected from property owners along with annual
property taxes.

The assessment, against each parcel of real property is based upon the length of a
parcel’s street frontage and in which of three zones of the City in which the
parcel lies. These three zones roughly relate to the City’s residential, commercial
and other areas and to the brightness of the street lighting in each zone. Because
of the City’s unusually deep, narrow lots, the assessment falls more heavily on
most single-family parcels than on most multi-family parcels. Although these lots
have similar street frontages (i.e., widths), most multi-family parcels are much
deeper and therefore larger and more valuable than most single-family parcels.
In most residential areas of the City, the assessment is levied at a rate of $1.77
per foot of frontage, so the owner of a 50-foot wide residential parcel pays $88.27
per year. In other areas of the City, the assessment rate is $7.80 per foot of
frontage so, for example, the owner of a retail store with a 50-foot wide parcel
pays $390.04 per year.

The Measure. Measure L is a Community Safety Enhancement Measure and
would repeal the existing assessment and instead impose an annual charge to
fund the improvement, maintenance and operation of community parks, public
landscaping and street lights for traffic and community safety.

The charge against each parcel would be based upon the use of that parcel as
shown on the records of the County Assessor. For example, owners of single-
family homes would pay $78.64 per year (a reduction over the current
assessment), while owners of parcels used as stores would pay $314.56 per year
(also a reduction over the current assessment) and owners of parcels used as
restaurants would pay $431.38 per year. Charges for other uses range from
$20.24 per year for utility parcels to $629.14 per year for department stores,
hotels and motels, supermarkets, and certain other intensive uses.

If Measure L is adopted, the revised amount will be adjusted for inflation in
future years at a rate of 3% per year but could not otherwise be increased
without a vote of the people. The City Council is also authorized to amend the
ordinance to make administrative adjustments, but may not increase the amount
of the charge.

The California Constitution requires that this charge be approved by a two-thirds
vote.

<impartialend>