<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE F

King City currently imposes a two percent (2%) tax upon charges
for certain utilities, including telephone services. This tax is commonly
referred to as a utility users’ tax. The tax was first implemented in
1993 and, until 2002, the revenues raised by the tax went into the
City's general fund used to provide many general City services such
as public works, recreation, and general administration. In 2002, the
voters of King City voted to require the City to use all revenue from
the utility users’ tax, including that raised from telephone services,
solely for the purpose of helping fund public safety, including police
and fire protection, in the City.

The question of whether and the extent to which cities could tax
cellular phone services was uncertain for a time but has now been
conclusively resolved by court opinions and by Congress’ passage
of the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act which expressly
authorizes the jurisdiction whose customer receives the bill to impose
a tax on charges for cellular telephone services.

Measure F, which has qualified for the November 2, 2004 ballot
for consideration by the voters of King City, is one of three measures
on the ballot proposing to amend and update the City’s utility users'
tax ordinance. Measure F would amend the City Code to clarify and
provide that the City's utility users' tax, as applied to charges for
telephone services, applies to all amounts paid for any interstate,
intrastate, and international telephone communication services,
including cellular telephone services. The Measure, if passed by the
voters, would effectively mean that all telephone services, whether
cellular telephone services or traditional land line services, are to
be treated alike and taxed in the same manner and to the same
extent. The Measure in confirming that the tax applies to cellular
service and in providing that the tax be applied equally to all
customers of phone services ensures that the City’s tax as applied
to telephone services is consistent with the requirements of federal
and state law. Measure F does not change or affect the tax rate but
passage of the Measure would likely result in a modest increase in
revenue from the tax because it would improve the City’s ability to
collect the tax from all cellular phone service providers.

Measure F will only take effect if approved by at least two-thirds
of the voters voting in the consolidated general election to be held
on November 2, 2004. If less than two-thirds vote in favor of the
measure, the City will continue to impose the tax on telephone
services and to construe its Code as imposing the taxation of cellular
phone services but the City is likely to continue to encounter
challenges by some cellular phone companies to paying the tax.
Whether the Measure passes or not, all revenue from the utility
users’ tax, including from application of the tax to charges for
telephone services, would continue to be dedicated solely to support
public safety services in the City.

<impartialend>