
<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE M
City of Madera Utility Users Tax
For the Preservation of Essential General Governmental Services

This Measure if approved by a majority of the voters enacts a Utility Users
Tax Ordinance previously approved by the City Council.

The Ordinance imposes a general tax on all users of public utilities, including telephone, electricity, gas, water and video services in the City of
Madera.

The rate of the tax is one and one-quarter percent (1.25%) for all utility services except for electricity and gas utilities provided to commercial users.
This means that for every one-hundred dollars of utilities, the utility customer will pay $1.25. The tax rate for electricity and gas utilities for commercial users is at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (.75%). This
means that for every one-hundred dollars of gas and electricity utilities
used by the commercial utility customer, they will pay 75 cents.

The net revenue generated by the Utility Users Tax may be used for all
general governmental purposes. These include but are not limited to, police and fire protection, parks and recreation services, code enforcement,
street repairs, economic development, elimination of graffiti, land use,
street lights, human resources and administrative services.

There is an exemption in the Utility Users Tax Ordinance for certain persons who are 62 years of age or older. Persons who file for an exemption-
and are 62 years of age or older and receive supplemental social security
benefits will not be required to pay the tax.

The Ordinance implementing the Utility Users Tax also provides for an independent Citizens Review Committee that will review the revenues generated and the monies expended, and prepare an annual report thereon to
be made available for public review.

The Utility Users Tax will be collected by the utility companies and administered by the City of Madera Finance Department and is estimated to generate approximately $600,000.00 annually.

There is currently no Utility Users Tax in the City of Madera.

The Utility Users Tax will be in effect until November 2014.

The Utility Users Tax will not go into effect unless the number of votes in favor of the Measure exceeds the number of votes against the Measure.

<impartialend>

	

