<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This measure, if approved by more than 50% of the voters casting votes in this election, will enact Ordinance 2004-014, revising Chapter 3.28 of the San Pablo Municipal Code, the City's Transient Occupancy (Hotel) Tax Ordinance. Chapter 3.28 was first adopted in 1969, and currently sets forth a tax rate of ten percent (10%) for the Hotel Tax. The tax rate was administratively reduced to six percent (6%) in 2003.
This measure would amend and modernize the City's Hotel Tax, increase such tax rate to twelve percent, and clarify and reorganize the procedures for collection and enforcement of the tax. The hotel tax is NOT assessed on San Pablo residents or businesses. Rather, it is assessed on visitors to the City, who stay in hotels, as defined in the Ordinance, for periods of thirty days or less. Certain exemptions are provided. Each hotel subject to the ordinance must obtain a permit, which must be posted at all times. Hotel operators must collect the tax and remit it to the City on a monthly basis. Penalties are assessed for delinquent payments, unless an extension for good cause has been obtained. The filing of false or fraudulent reports is made unlawful, and the City is given the right to audit and issue subpoenas to the hotel operator. The hotel operator is provided full due process rights to appeal the City's application of the tax. Provisions are set forth for refunds of overpaid taxes. The hotel tax is a general tax whose proceeds go into the City's General Fund and whose uses are not restricted to a particular purpose.
This tax may not be increased or extended without a vote of the people, but the City Council may otherwise amend the ordinance without a popular vote. The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure T. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the city clerk at 215-3000 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you, or you may view the ordinance on-line at http://www.ci.san-pablo.ca.us.

<impartialend>