<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M


Approval of Measure M would authorize the County of Los Angeles (“County”)
to levy a special tax of up to a maximum of $25.26 per parcel of property located
within the City of Gardena (“City”), beginning on July 1, 2004, which thereafter
shall increase by either 2%, or the percentage change in the consumer price
index for the prior fiscal year, whichever is less. The County shall not levy, or
shall cease to levy, the special tax within the City if the City withdraws from the
service area of the County of Los Angeles Public Library (“Public Library”)
beginning with the first fiscal year after the withdrawal takes effect.

The tax revenues would be used to fund public library buildings, equipment,
materials, vehicles and other facilities for the conduct of public library services
and programs, library lending services, information services, library collection
development and maintenance, books, magazines, newspapers, journals,
manuscripts, audio-visual, electronic media and other information materials,
literacy programs, electronic access to information sources such as the internet,
administrative expenses relating to the foregoing including the payment of
salaries and benefits of library personnel and other incidental expenses, and to
recover the costs of the election calling this measure and the reasonable costs
incurred by the County in spreading, billing and collecting the special tax. The
Public Library shall expend the revenues raised from this special tax only for the
purposes identified.

The Auditor-Controller of the County (“Auditor”) shall create a new account
into which the proceeds from the special tax shall be deposited. The Auditor
shall file a report with the County Board of Supervisors by no later than January
1, 2006, and by January 1 of each year thereafter, stating the amount of funds
collected and expended pursuant to this measure, and also the status of the
projects required or authorized to be funded.

The special taxes shall be collected by the Treasurer and Tax Collector of the
County at the same time and in the same manner, and subject to the same
penalties as the ad valorem taxes fixed and collected by or on behalf of the
County. All laws and procedures regarding exemptions, due dates, installment
payments, corrections, cancellations, refunds, late payments, penalties, liens and
collections for secured roll ad valorem property taxes shall be applicable to the
collection of this special tax. The Librarian for the Public Library shall establish
and administer an appeals process to address and correct potential errors or
inequities in the levy of the special tax.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the qualified electors in the City
voting on the measure for passage.

<impartialend>