<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from the Oakland City Attorney

This proposed Ordinance, the "Youth, Family and Violence Prevention
Act of 2004" would impose a City-wide parcel tax to fund youth,
family and violence prevention programs.

If adopted, this tax would be in effect for ten years and could be
extended only upon voter approval.

Tax revenues can be expended only in accordance with the following
objectives: (1) expanding counseling and mentoring programs for at-
risk youth; (2) expanding afterschool programs in the Oakland
schools; (3) expanding parent involvement programs in the Oakland
schools; (4) expanding violence prevention programs in the Oakland
schools; (5) expanding truancy enforcement programs to keep kids in
schools; (6) expanding early childhood intervention programs for children exposed to violence in the home at an early age; (7)
expanding programs to increase the number of police assigned to
walking patrol; (8) expanding specialized undercover police sting
operations to target crime hot-spots and target drug dealing and gang
activities; (9) expanding the Oakland Police Department's Drug
Taskforce to combat drug dealing and violence associated with the
drug trade; (10) establishing community-based specialist teams within
the Oakland Police Department trained to deal with mental health,
domestic violence, and conflict resolution; (11) providing job training,
employment opportunities, and other support services to parolees; and
(12) expanding job training and employment opportunities for young
adults.

Furthermore, the monies received from this tax must be expended as
follows: forty percent (40%) for social programs in accordance with
objectives 1 to 6 above; forty percent (40%) for police enforcement in
accordance with objectives 7 to 10 above; and twenty percent (20%)
for jobs and job training programs in accordance with objectives 11 to
12 above.

The Ordinance would allow the City Council to increase the tax rate
by the same amount as the annual increases in the cost of living index
in the San Francisco Bay Area, but in no event in excess of 5% per
year. The Ordinance also provides an exemption from the tax for
low income homeowners. To qualify for the exemption, homeowners
must apply to the City for the exemption annually. The tax is based on
a per parcel rate of $90 for single family residential parcels, $135 for
small multiple unit residential parcels (2-4 units); $180 for large
multiple residential parcels (5 or more units); $135 for commercial
parcels; $135 for industrial parcels; $90 for rural parcels; and $90 for
institutional parcels; each subject to annual adjustment.

A "Yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A"No" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.

Measure R is submitted to the voters of the City in accordance with
the Constitution of the State of California. In order to pass, a "Yes"
vote by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the measure is
required.

<impartialend>