<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
Ballot Measure K asks the voters to ratify and approve the continued collection of the City's existing Utility Users Tax. The Utility Users Tax currently is imposed on the use of telephone, electricity, natural gas and cable television services in the City at a fixed rate of 8% of the charges incurred by consumers of these services. The consumer pays the tax as part of the utility bill. Although the current ordinance also imposes the tax on water, garbage and recycling services, the City does not collect the tax on these services. The proposed changes to the ordinance in this Ballot Measure include eliminating garbage and recycling services from the list of taxable services.
The Utility Users Tax was adopted by the City Council as a general tax in 1991 and has been collected by the City since that time. General taxes are taxes that are not limited to a specific purpose, but are used for general city functions, such as police, fire, senior services, library operations, recreation programs and street and park maintenance. Currently, the Utility Users Tax raises about $2.2 million per year in tax revenues. The Ballot Measure is proposed in response to a California Supreme Court decision that subjects the Utility Users Tax to a risk of legal challenge for as long as the tax is collected without voter approval. When the City Council adopted the Utility Users Tax in 1991, courts had ruled that general taxes could be adopted by cities without a vote of the people. The California Supreme Court overturned those earlier decisions relied upon by the City and held that general taxes require voter approval. The City Council has proposed this measure to allow the voters the opportunity to ratify the past collection of the tax and approve its continued collection at the existing rate of 8% in the future. If adopted, the City Council may not increase the rate of the tax without voter approval by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.
The Ballot Measure updates and modifies the existing ordinance by exempting low income seniors from the Tax on their electricity and gas bills and subjecting Tax collections and expenditures to an annual audit by the City's independent auditors.
A "yes" vote on Measure K enacts an ordinance continuing and ratifying the City's existing 8% Utility Users Tax.
A "no" vote will result in the tax no longer being collected and the loss of approximately $2.2 million in annual tax revenues. A "no" vote also may result in liability to the City for the refund of taxes previously collected. The Ballot Measure will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.

<impartialend>