<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H

King City currently imposes a two percent (2%) tax upon charges
for telephone, electricity, gas, gas used for cogeneration plant, water,
and cable television services in the City.This tax is commonly referred
to as a utility users tax. The tax was first implemented in 1993 and,
until 2002, the revenues raised by the tax went into the City’s general
fund used to provide many general City services such as public
works, recreation, and general administration. In 2002, the voters
of King City voted to require the City to use all revenue from the
utility users’ tax solely for the purpose of funding public safety,
including police and fire protection, in the City. The utility users’ tax
currently raises approximately $220,000 per year, all of which goes
to help fund police, fire, and other public safety functions in the City.

Under the present Code, the maximum amount of tax paid
annually by very large users of utilities is limited to $2000 per year
for each category of utility, except for gas for cogeneration plant,
which is subject to an annual maximum of $21,000. The effect of
these caps is that very large users of utilities pay a rate of tax less
than the rate paid by other business, public, and residential users.

Measure H, which has qualified for the November 2, 2004 ballot
for consideration by the voters of King City, is one of three measures
on the ballot proposing to amend and update the City’s utility users’
tax ordinance. Measure H would amend the City Code by eliminating
the maximum annual utility users’ tax payable for electricity, gas,
telephone, water, and cable television services. The Measure would
not eliminate the cap on gas for the cogeneration plant. The effect
of Measure H if passed by the voters would be to ensure that all
users of electricity, gas, telephone, water, and cable television
services would be taxed at the same effective rate and only in direct
proportion to their actual use of a particular utility. It is anticipated
that passage of Measure H, by requiring large utility users to pay
the same effective rate as other utility customers, would result in a
modest increase in the amount of tax collected.

Measure H will only take effect if approved by at least two-thirds
of the voters voting in the consolidated general election to be held
on November 2, 2004. If less than two-thirds of the voters vote in
favor of the measure, the City will continue to impose and collect
the tax but very large users of utilities will continue to be excused
from payment of the tax after they’ve paid $2000 each year. Whether
the Measure passes or not, all revenue from the utility users’ tax
would continue to be dedicated solely to support public safety services
in the City.

<impartialend>