<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT") is a tax that is imposed on the privilege of using
overnight lodging facilities, such as hotels, motels and “bed and breakfast" businesses, and is frequently referred to as a “hotel tax" or “bed tax.” The current TOT
rate in Healdsburg is ten percent (10%) of the room rental rate. The City Council of
the City of Healdsburg (“City Council") has directed that a measure be placed on
the November 2, 2004, ballot requesting voter approval for Measure Q, which, if
approved, will authorize the City Council to increase the rate of TOT up to a maximum of twelve percent (12%) of the room rate for transient occupancy.

If Measure Q is approved, the City Council will be authorized to increase the TOT
rate up to a maximum rate of twelve percent (12%). However, no increase in TOT
shall be authorized, imposed or collected prior to July 1,2005. Before increasing
the rate of TOT to be imposed after July 1,2005, the City Council shall make a determination, through the City's annual budget review process, that additional general fund revenues are needed to maintain city services, including police and fire
protection services, at Fiscal Year 2004-2005 service levels.

In 2002, the voters of the City of Healdsburg ratified the City’s current TOT rate of
ten percent (10%) and designated the use of TOT proceeds generated at this rate
to be used specifically for designated community services purposes. If Measure Q
is approved and an increase in the rate of TOT is subsequently imposed by the City
Council, the first ten percent (10%) of any TOT shall continue to be used for those
previously designated purposes. Any amount of TOT that is generated as a result
of a rate greater than ten percent (10%) will be used for general fund purposes, including police and fire protection services. Because the proceeds from any increase in the TOT rate will be used for general fund purposes, this Measure will
become effective if approved by a majority of the electorate.

The Ordinance that authorizes the City Council to increase TOT from ten percent
(10%) up to a maximum rate of twelve percent (12%) includes certain other administrative provisions and information relating to TOT. 

Measure Q requires a majority affirmative vote for approval.

<impartialend>