<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

At its December 3, 2003 meeting, the City Council decided to submit to the
voters Measure V which would impose a special fire/police protection tax on
properties in the City of Monterey Park in the amounts set forth in the table
below. The special tax would pay for services, wages, medical benefits and
retirement enhancements. The City Council stated that the purpose of these
additional funds is to bring the City’s sworn police and fire personnel into parity
with the wages and benefits offer similar sworn personnel in other San Gabriel
Valley cities.

If at least two-thirds (2/3) of the voters approve Measure V, a special annual
parcel tax will be established and the monies collected shall be deposited in,a
special fund to be used by the City only as provided above. Property owners will
pay the amounts shown below beginning with the 2004/2005 property tax year.
Each year the City Council may levy the parcel tax up to the maximum amount.
The term of the special parcel tax is twenty-five years. Measure V states that it is
the intent and purpose that this special tax supplement, not replace, the City’s
current general fund budget appropriation for the fire and police departments.
Measure V exempts property owners from the fire/police protection tax who (i)
are religious, charitable or community service organizations which qualify for
other tax exemptions, (ii) are low-income, or (iii) qualify for the City's utility
user’s life line program. Further, the special tax to be imposed on any property
owner over the age of 65 years will be 50% of the amount set forth in the table
below.

Property Classification	Annual Amount to be Paid
Parcel Improved with a Single Family Residential Dwelling Unit or Each Dwelling Unit in a Residential Condominium Project	$70.00
Parcel Improved with Two Residential Units, Not a Condominium Project	$150.00
Parcel Improved with Three to Five Residential Units, Not a Condominium Project	$300.00
Parcel Improved with Six to Ten Residential Units, Not a Condominium Project	$550.00
Parcel Improved with Eleven or More Residential Units, Not a Condominium Project	$1,000.00
Parcel which is 0.14 acres or less and Improved with a Non-Residential Building	$200.00


Property Classification	Annual Amount to be Paid
Parcel which is more than 0.14 acres up to 0-5 acres and Improved with a Non-Residential Building	$400.00
Parcel which is more than 0.5 acres up to 1.0 acre and Improved with a Non-Residential Building	$700.00
Parcel which is more than 1.0 acre and Improved with a Non-Residential Building	$1,500.00
Vacant Parcel	$70.00

The annual tax amount may be increased pursuant to the consumer price index.

<impartialend>