<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE Q

This ballot measure, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure, will authorize an additional one-half of one percent sales tax within the City of South Lake Tahoe. This one-half of one percent sales tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes. The current sales tax within the City (including state and local sales taxes) is 7.25%. Of this amount, the City currently receives 1 percent, or one cent (1 cent) on every dollar. If this ballot measure is approved by the voters, the total sales tax would be 7.75%, and would increase the local portion of the sales tax which the City receives to 1 1/2%. Sales tax funds are used to pay for general City services such as police protection, fire protection, snow removal, street maintenance and repair, and recreation facilities and programs including senior services. The current 1 percent local sales tax generated $3,667,428 for the annual period from October 1, 2002 to September 30, 2003. Based on that amount, the proposed one-half of one percent increase in the local sales tax rate would generate an additional $1,833,714, to support the City services noted above.

This one-half of one percent sales tax would be a “general tax” meaning that the
revenue raised from the tax would go into the City general fund and could be used for
any legal governmental purpose. The use of the proceeds is not specifically limited, but the uses must be consistent with law and for a public purpose.

This one-half of one percent sales tax would be collected at the same time and in
the same manner as existing sales taxes. The proposed increased sales tax, like the
current sales tax, would be imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the jurisdictional limits of the City, as well as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer in the City of South Lake Tahoe.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City of
South Lake Tahoe to levy a transactions and use tax (sales tax) at a 0.5 percent (1/2 cent) rate so long as the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of the City Council and a majority vote of the qualified voters voting in an election on that issue. If approved, the Measure Q sales tax would become effective on April 1, 2005.

<impartialend>