

Impartial Analysis from the City Attorney
The City Council of the City of Union City ("City") has placed Measure K on the ballot to ask voters to approve a 5-year special tax for police and fire protection services ("public-safety services"). This tax constitutes a special tax pursuant to the California Constitution (Proposition 218), which requires approval by two-thirds of the City voters to pass.
The City operates both police and fire departments that serve the City. Both departments employ a significant number of full-time employees. The City provides equipment and stations for both departments. The proceeds from this special tax could be used only to purchase, operate and maintain equipment for public-safety services, to pay salaries of police and fire personnel, and to provide funding for other public-safety services expenses.
The tax will "sunset" after 5 years and cannot be renewed without a future vote. It would be imposed on the occupants of residential and non-residential property within the City based on estimated usage of public-safety services. The amount of the tax would be based on the use of the property and parcel size, as set forth in Measure K.
The tax would be adjusted annually in accordance with the Consumer Price Index.
The tax would become effective ten days following the council certification of the election and would terminate five years later.
The tax would not be imposed on unimproved parcels, and a refund would be available for unoccupied improved residential parcels. The owner of the property would be required to collect the tax from the occupant (if the occupant is different from the owner) and remit the tax to the City. The City would be authorized, but not required, to contract with the applicable County to collect the tax on the property tax rolls.
If the tax is enacted, the City Council could exempt one or more classes of occupants from the tax, either partially or totally, including a class of occupants based on household income level.
If at least two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail and the City will not be authorized to collect the special tax.
