

City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of Measure R

Background. The City of Benicia has levied a business license tax since 1972. Each person
conducting a business, trade, or profession in the City must pay this tax. Taxes are due annually
from most businesses and the tax is based on either the gross receipts of a business or the number
of people employed by the business. In most cases, the maximum tax owed by a business is
$150 per year. The rates and maximum tax amounts have not been increased since the tax was
first levied and the proceeds of the tax provide far less real revenue to the City than was true in
1972 due to inflation.

The Measure. Measure R would simplify the current tax rate structure and update tax rates that
have not been increased since 1972. If Measure R is adopted, most businesses will pay an
annual business license tax of $7.50 for each employee or independent contractor and, depending
on the type of business, between 55 cents and 75 cents per $1,000 of gross receipts received by
the business. The gross receipts portion of the tax will be capped at $450 per year for any
business.

Certain businesses would be taxed differently. Landlords who lease more than three residential
units in the City will pay an annual tax of $36.00 for each 1 unit (excluding units occupied by
senior citizens and low-income tenants), plus the tax for employees and contractors. Solicitors,
farmer’s market vendors, and operators of street and community fair booths will pay a tax of
$15.00 per event.

If Measure R is adopted, the revised tax amounts will be adjusted for inflation in future years
according to changes in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay Area, but such
increases will be capped by the average increase in that index over the previous five years in
order to prevent sharp increases. The City Council is authorized to suspend all or part of an
annual inflation adjustment.

The City Council is also authorized to amend the tax ordinance in any manner that does not
increase the tax amounts due. Any increase in the tax will require voter approval.

Copy of Ordinance. The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure R.