<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition “O” proposes to raise revenue for the purpose of funding police and fire facilities, and
equipment, by authorizing a sales tax of one-half of a cent within the City of El Cajon. The tax would
be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes and would be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes the City Council to levy a
transaction and use tax (i.e., a “sales”) tax at a rate not to exceed 0.50 percent (or any multiple
thereof) if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election on
that issue. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will be adopted by ordinance to become effective
no sooner than April 1, 2005. By its terms, the sales tax would be eliminated ten (10) years
following the effective date of the tax.

The revenues raised from the sales tax will be used to fund the replacement of police and fire
facilities with combined earthquake-safe facilities including the latest public safety technology and
an Emergency Operations Center to coordinate disaster response, relocating or upgrading fire
stations, and replacing animal control facilities.

The sales tax increases will be subject to certain conditions included in a plan adopted by the City
Council. Such conditions provide that the expenditures of money pursuant to the plan be
independently audited on an annual basis and that a citizen’s advisory committee review the
auditor's report and report to the community their findings.

Under the terms of the proposed ordinance and California law sales of property to be used outside
of the City of El Cajon, and which are delivered to the purchaser outside of the City, are exempt
from the tax. Motor vehicles, aircraft and marine vessels sold in the City of El Cajon, but to non-City
residents, are considered “delivered” outside the City of El Cajon so long as the property is
registered to an out-of-City address and certain other requirements are met.

<impartialend>