<impartial>

impartial Analysis of measure "M"

The City of Moreno Valley provides its residents and businesses with a
variety of public services. Most services provided by the City are paid for
out of the City’s General Fund. These services include police, fire,
emergency medical response, school crossing guards, street maintenance, graffiti removal, animal shelter, code enforcement, library
services, planning and land development, fire and building inspections,
and general administrative services.

The City of Moreno Valley takes in the least amount of money per
resident than any city of its size in California. The utility tax is the largest
single source of income to the General Fund. It will raise about $11.6
million this year. The utility tax provides about 20% of the income to the
General Fund. 100% of the utility tax dollar is used to pay for City
services. The money to pay for police and fire services alone accounts
for approximately 60% of the City’s General Fund budget.

This measure will repeal the utility tax. Repeal of the utility tax will result
in a loss to the General Fund of about $11.6 million a year. The loss of
utility tax money to the General Fund will be permanent and ongoing.

Last year the General Fund lost nearly $3 million when the State failed to
pay the City for lost Vehicle License Fee revenue. The State is also
taking approximately $1 million from the City this year, and is expected to
take another $1 million from the City next year because of the State's
own budget crisis.

Repeal of the utility tax will likely lead to cuts in City services. The City
Council will decide what cuts to make. However, there are some services
the City cannot cut because State or Federal law requires them. There-
fore, cuts will be to services the City is not required by law to provide.
Service cuts will likely include public safety services such as police and
fire.

A “YES" vote is a vote to repeal the existing utility tax.

A "NO" vote is a vote to keep the existing utility tax.

<impartialend>