CITY OF PATTERSON
MEASURE B
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE

The City of Patterson is imposing a Transient Occupancy Tax of eight
percent (8%) of the rent charged to temporary occupants of hotel, motel,
recreational vehicle parks or similar types of temporary lodging facilities.
Cities and counties may tax persons who stay 30 days or less in motels,
hotels, recreational vehicle parks or similar types of temporary lodgings
facilities. Only occupancies of 30 days or less are subject to the tax.
This is not a tax on residents only visitors staying in or at hotels or
recreational vehicle parks pay this tax. Therefore, the tax is designed
to apply to persons who are temporarily residing in the City. This tax is
used as a means of recouping a portion of the cost of City services and
facilities used by such persons during their stay in the City. The tax is
assessed only on persons who temporarily rent space in the City and
does not apply to persons who rent homes, apartments or similar
permanent living accommodations. Such taxes are called “Transient
Occupancy Taxes” (TOT”). The tax is a debt owed by the person renting
space, but is collected by the operator and paid to the City. All revenues
saved from the tax become part of the City’s General Fund, which may
be used for any municipal purpose approved by the City Council.

If adopted by a majority vote of those persons voting at the General
Election on November 2, 2004, the City of Patterson Measure B
Ordinance No. 656 will become effective upon the date that the vote is
declared by the City Council. The City of Patterson presently does not
have a Transient Occupancy Tax, which is recommended to be
implemented this year especially when considering the annexation of
the West Patterson area into the City. Approval of Measure B will make
the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax rate consistent with Stanislaus
County’s current Transient Occupancy Tax of eight percent (8%) and
with the majority of California cities.

