<impartial>		


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X 

 

Effect on Existing Law.  

Approval of Measure X would impose an annual parcel tax for additional library services beginning in 2007-2008, as set forth in City Ordinance No. 2004-029. Disapproval of Measure X would mean the parcel tax for additional library services would not be imposed.  

The parcel tax would take effect at the expiration of the existing assessment for additional library services, and would be equivalent in amount to the existing assessment, subject to the same annual adjustment. 

Operation of Measure.  

The City Council enacted Ordinance 2004-029 to impose an annual parcel tax for additional library services for ten years, beginning in 2007-2008 when the current voter-approved annual assessment expires. The tax may not be collected unless it is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters of the City of Sacramento voting on the tax in an election. Measure X presents the parcel tax for voter approval or disapproval.   
			
The parcel tax would be collected from the owners of all non-exempt properties within the City. The amount of the tax for each land use type is set forth in the full text of the measure. For example, each developed single family residential parcel would be taxed $26.60 for the first year (2007-2008) Of the tax. The tax for each land use type will be adjusted annually to reflect any increase in the the consumer price index, not to exceed three percent (3%) per year. The single family residence tax would rise to not more than $34.60 in the tenth year. 			

The additional library services to be funded by the tax are described in the measure. They include additional open hours per week at all City branch libraries, additional library materials (books, magazines, CDs, DVDs, online databases, etc.), enhanced technology at branches, including network connections, software and hardware, self-service technology and online access, and enhanced services to children and teens by trained staff, including after school homework help programs. The proceeds, less expenses of collection, will be transferred to the Sacramento Public Library Authority to be expended only for the purposes set forth in the measure. The services to be provided are additional in the they are in addition to those funded by the City’s current general fund allocation for library purposes. 

The City’s 2004-2005 $7.6 million general fund allocation to the Library will not be replaced by the tax proceeds. With one exception, the measure prohibits the City from collecting the tax in a any year during which the City Council reduces its general fund budget for library purposes to less than the $7.6 million allocation. The exception permits the tax to be collected if the total general fund budget (excluding police and fire budgets and expenditures offset by fees and other non-tax revenues) decreases from its 2004-2005 level and the City Council reduces library funding in proportion to other reductions.  






<impartialend>