<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

Measure O, if approved by two-thirds of those voting on it, approves a 1/4 cent
sales tax (tax rate .0025) within the City of Santa Rosa, the revenues of which
may only be used for the police and fire purposes and gang prevention and youth
programs specified in City of Santa Rosa Ordinance No. 3680. Ordinance 3680
requires the City Council to appoint a seven member Citizen Oversight Committee
to annually review and publicly report upon the expenditures of the tax revenues
to ensure they were made in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance.

Under the ordinance, 40% of the tax revenues must be used for Police purposes and,
with certain possible exceptions during fiscal years 2004-2007, must be specifically
used for the following: police patrol and traffic control services; gang enforcement,
school resource services, and bicycle patrols; Downtown, Railroad Square and
Prince Greenway police services; and police support services, including facilities
and equipment.

40% of the tax revenues must be used for Fire Department purposes, and, with the
exceptions applicable to Police revenues, must be specifically used for the following: hiring additional firefighters; establishment of additional Fire Department paramedic units; and construction and relocation of fire stations and the purchase of specialized equipment for Fire Department use.

The remaining 20% of the tax revenues must be used for gang prevention and
youth programs, and, with the exceptions applicable to Police revenues, must be
specifically used for the following: improving in-school gang prevention and
intervention programs; adding new programs in neighborhoods affected by high
levels of gang activity, which emphasize, among other things, community safety;
providing additional after-school and summer programs which, among other
things, stress academic and social success; providing grants to organizations for
youth and parenting programs which, among other things, focus on gang and anti-violence education. Tax revenues for gang prevention and youth programs may be
used for new focus areas and providing new programs within existing focus areas
under the City’s Neighborhood Revitalization Program.

Because of State revenue reductions to cities, the ordinance authorizes the Council
to use a portion of the tax revenues to fund nine police officer positions and two Fire
Department emergency response companies, but only during the current and next
fiscal year. Should the State fail to reinstate certain lost and borrowed revenues
owed to cities, the Council may also use tax revenues to fund these positions in fiscal year 2006-2007. The ordinance requires that, during the continuation of the tax, the
City's annual funding of the Police and Fire Departments and gang prevention and
youth programs may not be below the funding of those uses and purposes approved in the City’s budget, as adopted on June 17,2004, adjusted annually by
changes in the area’s cost of living index, unless a lower level of funding is approved by the affirmative vote of six Council Members.

The tax terminates 20 years from its effective date.

Ordinance 3680 should be reviewed for details on the tax, particularly City Code
sections 3-26.120 and 3-26.160.

<impartialend>