<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE H

The Initiative Measure contain the following provisions:

Dedication to the memory of Officer Stephan
Gray.

Identifies the purpose as funding 34 additional
sworn police officers and 12 additional sworn
fire fighters along with their training, equipment, and supervisory and support staff during
the term of the tax.

Measure becomes effective 10 days after the
certification by the City Council with sufficient
votes for passage; the tax becomes effective
April 1, 2005 for a period of 20 years.
Suspends the tax, after notice to the State,
should the State divert this revenue for State
purposes.

The sales and use tax rate is set at one-half of
one percent.

Forms a Citizens Oversight Committee of nine
members, three from each of the existing
Policing Districts of the City.

Appointed by the City Council to serve with-
out compensation for a five-year term.

Must be registered voters of City or business owners within the City and also
Merced County residents.

Meet quarterly to review revenues and
expenditures and report findings to the City
Council.	

City Manager and Finance Officer, in budget
message to the City Council, report the
Measure’s revenues and expenditures and certify all expenditures were for authorized purposes.

Prohibits the City from transferring general
fund public safety obligations to the special tax;
except in economic emergencies declared by
supramajority vote of the City Council for a 3
month period which may be extended with
another supramajority vote of the City Council.
A supramajority vote is at least 5 of 7 City
Council Members voting yes.

No existing personnel shall have their salary or
benefits increased as a result of the passage
of the Measure.

Distributes the revenue between the police and
fire departments.

For the deposit of the revenues collected into
special funds; establishes an Expenditure Plan
as required by the State law.

Authority for the City Council to advance funds
to the special accounts created by the
Measure if desired and requires that any
advance made be repaid within 24 months with
interest.

For the establishment of specially funded positions under the Measure to ensure that the
costs of general fund public safety employees
are not transferred from the general fund to the
special funds collected under the Measure.

For the City Council’s authority to amend the
Measure in the following areas:

Composition of the Citizens Oversight
Committee.

To not suspend the tax if the State diverts
the revenue collected under the Measure on
a temporary basis.

To remain consistent with the requirements
of the State Board of Equalization required
for the continued collection of the tax.

To raise or increase beyond the minimum
number of sworn police officers and firefighters if funds are available.

Requires a further vote of the people before
the tax rate may be increased or the term of
the tax extended.

<impartialend>