<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

This ballot measure asks Kerman voters whether the City of Kerman should
institute a Transient Occupancy Tax for motel/hotel users staying in the City at
a rate of 8% of their hotel/motel room rate. Transient occupancy taxes are
sometimes called “bed taxes”, “room taxes” or “overnight visitor taxes”. If a
majority of those voting vote yes, the measure would add Chapter 5.50 to the
Kerman Municipal Ordinance.

Chapter 5.50 would impose a tax of 8% on the room rate for any transient
renting a room in a hotel for less than 30 days. Chapter 5.50 defines
“transient” as any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other
agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so
occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period
of thirty (30) days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing
between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of
occupancy. “Hotel” is defined as “any structure, or any portion of any
structure, which is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes and includes any hotel,
inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house,
rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile
home or house trailer at a fixed location or other similar structure or portion
thereof; and any portion of any real property occupied, intended to be
occupied, or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes in any recreational vehicle, trailer, trailer coach, house car
or motor home, and includes campgrounds and recreation vehicle parks.”

The Transient Occupancy Tax would be collected by each hotel operator
from each transient and paid to the City on a monthly basis. City staff
estimates this tax would currently provide $7400 of revenue annually and add
$4 to the cost of a room renting for $50. per night. If additional hotels locate in
the City, estimated revenue might rise to $40,000 per year. There is no formal
estimate of costs to administer this tax, but they are believed to be minimal.

The 8% rate of the proposed tax is similar to the rate charged or proposed as
a transient occupancy tax by other local public agencies, and should not
create a competitive disadvantage for the City’s hotel operators. The rate of
the tax may be changed only by the voters, but the City Council could make
administrative changes to other provisions of proposed Chapter 5.50 by a
vote of 4 or more of the council members.

Revenue from the Transient Occupancy Tax would be paid into the City’s
general fund and used to meet the expenses of the City. The approval of only a majority of the voters voting in this election is required to establish this
general tax.

<impartialend>