<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE "NN"

PUBLIC SAFETY TAX

Measure “NN” is a special tax measure of the City of Perris. If approved
by voters. Measure “NN” will authorize the City to levy a special tax
annually on all parcels of real property within the City which are not
exempt from regular property taxes. The tax would be collected along
with regular property taxes. All revenue the City receives from the tax
must be deposited in a special fund, and will be restricted by law to pay
solely for fire and police services, including operations, equipment, and
personnel.

Fire and police services are currently provided to the City under contract
with Riverside County and paid for out of the City’s General Fund. The
City currently has one fire station which is owned by the State of California and located in the central part of the City. The City Council has authorized the design of a second fire station which will be owned by the City
and located in the northern part of the City. The new North Perris Fire
Station is scheduled for completion in 2006 and will include a small
annex for police services.

Approximately half of the City’s General Fund is used annually to pay for
the current level of fire and police services: Any additional services
provided by the North Perris Fire Station will require additional funding.

In 2001, the City formed the North Perris Community Facilities District
(“North Perris CFD") to partially fund the operation of the North Perris
Fire Station. Properties within the North Perris CFD are subject to a
special CFD tax. However, all of the CFD taxes collected from properties
within the North Perris CFD are restricted by law to fund public safety
services only within the North Perris CFD. Since the North Perris Fire
Station will also serve residents and properties outside the North Perris
CFD, the new Station must receive part of its funding from some other
source, such as the General Fund or the proposed Measure "NN."

If Measure "NN" is approved, parcels within the North Perris CFD will be subject to the new tax in addition to the existing CFD tax. However, their
existing CFD tax will be reduced by the amount of the Measure “NN" tax,
resulting in no net tax increase within the North Perris CFD. If Measure "NN" is not approved, the existing CFD tax will remain the same.

The tax proposed by Measure "NN" is divided into several categories,
with the lowest tax on vacant property and the highest tax on hotels and
institutional facilities. The tax formula provides for an annual increase of
not more, than two percent. The City’s consultant estimates Measure
“NN" will raise approximately 5585,000 annually for fire and police
services.

If two-thirds of the qualified voters vote in favor of Measure “NN”, the
special tax 'will be imposed beginning in the 2004-2005 Fiscal Year. If
less than two-thirds of the voters vote in favor of it, the Measure will fail
and the City will not levy the tax.

<impartialend>