<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE K

King City has since 1993 imposed a two percent (2%) tax upon
charges for telephone, electricity, gas, gas used for cogeneration plant,
water, and cable television services in the City. This tax is referred to
as the utility users’ tax. The tax rate has not changed since the tax
first went into effect more than twelve years ago and is one of the
lowest rates charged by any California city. As originally enacted, the
revenues raised by the tax went into the City’s general fund used to
provide many general City services such as public works, recreation,
and general administration. However, in 2002, the voters of King City
attempted to shield public safety services from fallout from the state
budget crisis and proposed takeaways and reductions in vehicle license
fees and state sales tax and to try to provide for a stable, long term
source of revenue to help support police and fire protection in the
City, by approving a ballot measure requiring the City to pay all monies
received by the City from collection of the Utility Users Tax into a
“Special Fund for Public Safety” and to use the monies in that fund
exclusively for the purpose of funding public safety services, including
police and fire protection. Since 2002, all of the revenue raised by
the tax has gone to help fund police and fire services in the City.

Measure K, which has qualified for the November 8, 2005 ballot
for consideration by the voters of King City, would amend existing
law by increasing the tax rate to be applied to charges for telephone,
electricity, gas, gas used for cogeneration plant, water, and cable
television services in the City from the present two percent rate to
six percent. Utility user tax rates in other cities range from two to
as much as twelve percent, with approximately six percent being
the average rate. Measure K would also establish a Citizen Advisory
Committee to annually review the amount of revenue raised by the
tax and the uses to which the City spends the revenue and to publicly
report its findings and recommendations.

All of the additional revenue which would result from the new
rate would be used to help fund police and fire protection in the
City, and would partially offset the City’s projected continued loss
of state revenue.

Measure K will take effect only if approved by at least two-thirds
of the voters voting in the consolidated special election to be held
on November 8, 2005. If less than two-thirds of the voters vote in
favor of the measure, the City will continue to impose and collect
the tax at the existing rate.

<impartialend>