<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

Measure F is submitted by the Sierra Madre City Council to propose a public
safety tax to fund police and fire services. 2/3-voter approval is required for its
approval.

Background. The city has the only remaining all-volunteer fire department in
Los Angeles County. Lacking a substantial sales tax base, the City funds police
and fire services via a voter-approved utility users tax and approximately 18 cents
of each dollar of property tax paid in the City. The remaining property taxes -
roughly 82% - go to schools, the county, and other government agencies. The
State has reduced property taxes paid to cities to address the State’s fiscal
problems, causing budget difficulties for the City. The City’s police officers are
among the lowest paid in Los Angeles County, earning at least 15% less than all
other San Gabriel Valley police departments. Although the fire department’s
volunteers work without pay, the City pays other department expenses, such as
purchasing and maintaining small equipment, supplies, dispatch services and
some training. The department does not have money for scheduled replacement
of major equipment and has problems providing adequate staffing during
weekday hours. Sierra Madre is the only area in Los Angeles County which does
not receive advanced life support (ALS) emergency medical services by
paramedics authorized to administer drugs and insert breathing tubes when
needed.

The Measure. Measure F would authorize the City Council to charge up to $140
plus 6 cents per square foot of buildings annually per parcel. Each year, the
Council would be required to adopt a public safety budget and to hold public
hearings before setting a rate at or below this ceiling. The ceiling would increase
annually by the smaller of 5% or the Consumer Price Index increase. Measure F
proceeds would be placed in a special fund to be used only for police and fire
services, including ALS paramedic emergency medical services; additional
daytime firefighting and public safety support; replacement of major fire
equipment under an approved capital expenditure plan; training for volunteer
firefighters in fire prevention, suppression, and emergency medical services; and
salary and benefit enhancements to allow the City to compete for, and retain,
qualified police officers.

Measure F exempts government agencies, churches, schools, and other property
owners who are exempt from property taxes and allows low-income residents of
single-family houses to pay one-half the rate.

The tax can be increased only by a 2/3 vote of the people.

<impartialend>