<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

This proposed measure, if adopted by (2/3) of East Palo Alto voters voting
on the measure, would raise revenue to address violence and promote crime
reduction programs to enhance public safety in the City. The revenue will
come from a new parcel tax, which is proposed to be in effect for ten (10)
years. The permitted uses of the revenue are community and neighborhood
policing (hiring and maintaining additional police officers above the
currently budgeted 48 officers), violence-reduction programs, and
anti-violence education and prevention services with an emphasis on youth
and gangs. The revenue allocated to the violence prevention services will
be not less than 50% of the total proceeds allocated for community and
neighborhood policing. The parcel tax will be $100.00 for a single family
residential parcel, $75.00 for each unit in a multi-family residential parcel.
For commercial and industrial parcels, the parcel tax varies depending on
the frontage and size area of the property.

California cities may impose special taxes only if (2/3) of a city’s voters
approve the tax. A “special” tax is a tax that the City can use only for the
purposes specified in the tax measure.

The revenue generated from this tax may be expended only:

A.	For preventive social services, including youth outreach counselors,
after-school and in-school programs for at-risk adolescents and
children, domestic violence and child abuse counselors, and ex-offender employment training.

B.	To hire additional sworn police officers, including at least one
community-policing officer for each existing community policing
beat, for combating truancy, for a crime reduction team, for domestic
violence and child abuse intervention, and for community policing
training and equipment.

This measure also requires an annual independent audit and establishes a
“Violence Prevention and Public Safety Oversight Committee” to review
the annual audits, evaluate the effectiveness of the programs, and make
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council regarding regulations.

Owners of undeveloped parcels are exempt from this parcel tax for each
year that they can prove to the City that their parcel was undeveloped for at
least six months of the year. Senior citizens over 65 years of age would
also be exempt, upon application for exemption.

All funds collected from the parcel tax will be deposited into a special fund.
The City may collect the taxes authorized by this measure only if the City’s
appropriation for sworn police officers (without including the taxes raised
by this measure) is at least equal to the amount necessary to employ 48
officers.

<impartialend>