<impartial>

MEASURE G

VACAVILLE CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF BALLOT MEASURE G

Background

The City of Vacaville owns and operates a water and sewer utilities system, which provides water and sewer service to businesses and residents within the City. The
City currently imposes an in-lieu fee on these utilities. The fee consists of two parts: (i) an in-lieu property tax fee of one percent of the net book value of the utilities’
physical assets, and (ii) an in-lieu franchise fee of five percent of user service and volume charges. The first of these represents the property tax revenue the City
would receive if these utilities were privately owned. The second represents the franchise fee that the City could receive from a privately-owned utility for the privilege of using or installing facilities within City streets and rights of way, similar to the franchise fee charged to the cable television company and garbage company.

The revenue received from the in-lieu fee is placed in the City’s General Fund and is used to fund general municipal services. The fee is an internal charge on the
City’s own water and sewer utilities and is not a direct charge to water and sewer users. However, as a cost to the utilities, the fee is reflected in the water and sewer
rates since the rates are based on the cost of providing water and sewer service. The fee currently generates approximately $3.5 million per year for the City’s
General Fund, or 7% of that Fund’s total revenue. Eighty percent of the Fund is used to pay for police and fire services and the maintenance of streets, parks, and
other public facilities.

The Measure

This Measure proposes to replace the existing in-lieu fee with an equivalent general tax on water and sewer operations. The general tax will be at the same rate
and collected in the same manner as the existing in-lieu fee. Like the fee, the tax will not be a direct charge to water and sewer users but will be an internal charge
on the City's water and sewer operations and will continue to be used to fund general City services, as described above. The Measure allows the City Council to
lower or modify the tax rate, but prohibits the Council from increasing the rate above the one percent and five percent limits. Thus, the tax rate can never be greater
than the current fee rate.

Fiscal Impact

The tax rate will be the same and will not modify or affect existing water and sewer charges. Thus, water and sewer users will see no change in their water and
sewer rates as a result of the tax. If the Measure fails, the tax will not take effect and funding for City services will b.e reduced by $3.5 million or 7% of the General
Fund’s total revenue.

This Measure requires a majority vote for passage. A “yes" vote means you are in favor of the tax. A “no” vote means you oppose the tax.

<impartialend>