<impartial>

MEASURE “S”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
LIBRARY RELIEF ACT
Summary

This proposed Library Relief Act ("Act"), if passed by two-thirds of those voting, will
raise approximately $1.6 million per year. The money may only be used for the maintenance and
operations of the City's libraries (which includes buying materials for library patrons, including
books) and to pay approximately one-half of the annual debt service on the bond that was used to
construct the Feldheym Library (or $332,400 per year, whichever amount is less).

It will cost single family residential parcel owners $20 per year (about $1.67 per month).
An exemption exists for seniors whose annual income levels are below a certain amount. In
addition, those who are disabled will also be exempt from paying it. This tax will not be paid by
any person receiving an exemption from the City's Service User's Tax.

The Act will automatically end eight years from its enactment.

Specifics

The Act would help fund the City's libraries for the next eight years by imposing an
annual library special tax in the following manner:

•	$20	per parcel containing one single family residence;

•	$20	per residential unit in a condominium project;

•	$13	per residential unit per parcel for all other residentially-used or

designated parcels;

•	$50	per parcel of non-residentially used or designated property in the City.

These amounts will not be levied upon any parcel containing one single family residence
for that parcel or upon any residential unit in a condominium project for that unit if: 1) any owner is
621,4 years old or older, does not exceed an annual designated income level (currently for a
residence with one occupant - $28,350, for a family of 2 - $36,700, for a family of 3 - $40,050, and
gradually increasing thereafter in increments based upon the size of the family) and whose
application for exemption is approved by the City; or, 2) any owner meets the criteria of disability
by the Social Security Administration's Supplemental Income program for the Aged, Blind and
Disabled and whose application for exemption is approved by the City.

For the first two years of this tax, the City will be required to appropriate, annually, a
minimum of $2,358,400 (in addition to the money raised by the tax) for the maintenance and
operations of the City's libraries. After the first year, the tax would be indexed annually by June 1,
based upon the consumer price index. The tax would be imposed after the second year only if
the City appropriates the required amount of money (+ or - the cost of living adjustment) or at
least $2,358,400, whichever is greater (in addition to the money raised by the tax), to the libraries
for their maintenance and operations costs. Such appropriation will insure that the money raised
by the tax is additional money for the libraries.

A "yes" vote approves the Act and authorizes imposition of a special tax for eight years
to help fund the City's libraries.

A "no" vote rejects the measure and the City's libraries would not receive the proposed
additional funds.

<impartialend>