<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Passage of Measure R will authorize an increase in the sum paid per
improved parcel for snow removal services from $20.00 to $40.00
within the municipal boundaries of the City of South Lake Tahoe.

If Measure R is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the
measure, property owners in the City of South Lake Tahoe would pay
a $40.00 annual fee per improved parcel to be used exclusively for
purchasing, operating and maintaining snow removal equipment
beginning with the 07/01/06 — 06/30/07 property tax cycle. If
approved, this $40.00 parcel tax will replace the current $20.00 benefit
assessment. This $40.00 parcel tax will increase annually by July 1st
by an amount equal to the lesser of 3% or the change in the San
Francisco/Oakland/San Jose All Urban Consumer Price Index
published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor to
the index, between the previous April and March of the year in which
the calculation is performed. This measure exempts cemeteries,
seasonal or summer cabins leased from the U.S. Forest Service and
time share interests in time share units.

It is projected that the additional approximate sum of $217,800 will be
raised in the first year the measure is enacted, based upon the amount
collected laster year from the current $20.00 per parcel benefit

assessment. Thereafter, the amount raised would be subject to a cost of
living adjustment not to exceed 3% each year.

The measure is a special tax. The use of the proceeds is specifically
limited to the purchase, operating, and maintaining of snow removal
equipment. This measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) majority to pass.

The special tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate
item on the tax bill of each such taxable parcel and shall be collected
at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as
set forth in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure and sale in case of deliquency as provided for such taxes.

All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county
property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

Upon approval of the voters as set forth in this Resolution, the current
annual benefit assessment imposed in the portion of County Service
Area No. 3, which lies within the municipal boundaries of the City of
South Lake Tahoe, in the sum of $20.00 per improved parcel, would
be replaced by this special tax of $40.00 per improved parcel. In the
event this special tax is not approved by the voters, the current benefit
assessment of $20.00 per improved parcel, which was enacted in
1989, will continue to be imposed in the same manner and in the same
amounts as currently authorized. If Measure R is not approved, no
additional funding will be made available from parcel assessments for
snow removal equipment used within the City of South Lake Tahoe.


<impartialend>