<impartial>


ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

MEASURE "B5"

The City Council of the City of Fillmore (“City") proposes to purchase the former
swimming pool property located on the Fillmore High School campus, 555
Central Avenue, Fillmore, California, from the Fillmore Unified School District and
construct a new community swimming pool on the property. The stated purpose
of the Ordinance is to impose a maximum special tax of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00)
per year for each single-family residence, condominium, apartment unit,
non-residential parcel and vacant land parcel for swimming pool maintenance
and operating costs. Churches, property owned by charitable organizations and
mobile homes where the owner of the mobile home does not own the land, are
exempt from the tax. The tax will end exactly one (1) year after the life of the pool
ends. Each fiscal year the tax shall be calculated based on the annual
maintenance and operations costs of the swimming pool for that fiscal year
divided by the number of residential units and non-residential parcels within the
City. The annual tax rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of Fifteen Dollars
($15.00). The annual tax rate shall be reduced if the annual maintenance and
operating costs of the swimming pool do not require the maximum rate. The tax
will be imposed annually unless the City Council determines by June 30 before
the next fiscal year not to impose the tax for that fiscal year.

The tax rate cannot exceed the maximum established by the Ordinance without
the approval of a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City of Fillmore or
such percentage as required by current law. The tax, if approved by two-thirds
(2/3) of the voters, shall be placed in a special fund and can only be used to pay
for the maintenance and operating costs of the swimming pool and limited
administrative expenses required to collect and account for the tax. If the voters
do not approve the Ordinance, the City will not purchase the former swimming
pool property or build a new swimming pool.

<impartialend>