<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF ANGELS

MEASURE A

Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes cities to levy, increase or extend a transactions and use tax, commonly
referred to as a sales tax, for specific purposes. The tax may be levied, increased or extended if the following requirements are met: (a)
The ordinance proposing the increase is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the governing body and is subsequently
approved by a two-thirds vote of qualified voters of the city voting in an election on the issue; (b) The transactions and use tax
conforms to the Transactions and Use Tax Law; (c) The ordinance includes an expenditure plan describing the specific projects for
which the revenues from the tax may be expended.

This measure will impose an additional .75% (three quarters of one percent) tax on retail sales within the City of Angels. The current
sales tax rate is 7.25%. If the additional tax is imposed, the sales tax rate will be 8%. The tax will be imposed in substantially the same
manner as the existing State of California Sales and Use Tax.

The net proceeds from the added tax will be expended by the City on the following:

Funding of the design and construction of an arterial alternate route to Highway 49 to mitigate traffic congestion by extending the
road known as Angel Oaks Drive and Greenhorn Creek Road to connect with Highway 49 near the north and south city limits in
accordance with the City's General Plan. Expenditures include the planning, design, required studies, permits, right-of-way
acquisition, construction, inspection and all expenses necessary to achieve final acceptance of the roadways by the government of
jurisdiction and satisfaction of all related debt.

The effective date of the Ordinance is January 1, 2006.

A yes vote on this ballot measure would impose the tax and increase the sales and use tax within the City of Angels to 8% allowing
for the design and construction for the project described above.

A no vote on this ballot measure would maintain the current sales and use tax rate of 7.25% within the City of Angels and would not
provide additional funding for the design and construction of the project described above.

<impartialend>