<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H



“This measure, if adopted, would establish a temporary utility user’s tax of up to
three percent (3%). The revenue would be used solely to finance and construct a
new, modernized Police Station in the City of Signal Hill and to pay for police
equipment and related costs.

The current Police Station was built in 1960 and the police force has doubled
since that time. In 2001 and 2004, two citizen committees studied the need for a
new Police Station. Each committee concluded a new Police Station was
necessary, citing problems including inadequate working space for current
personnel, lack of space for evidence storage, antiquated cabling and electrical
systems, and outdated technological facilities.

The City Council has also decided to hire six new officers over the next three
years (two per year), which after three years is expected to cost $784,000
annually. This will be funded from on-going revenue, not from this tax. However,
the additional officers may compound the space problem.

A new, modernized Police Station will cost an estimated $12 million. The City is
allocating $2.5 million of existing reserves, plus a City-owned site valued at $1
million. However, this still leaves a shortfall of approximately $10 million.
Annual revenue expected from the tax is approximately $1.3 million. At current
interest rates, this should raise $12-13 million by publicly issued bonds, and
construction could commence within the next 12-18 months.

This measure is being proposed as a special tax. Under Proposition 218, a 2/3
vote is required. As a special tax, the revenue shall be placed in a special fund
and spent only for the special purposes set forth in the ordinance. This measure
limits expenditures to the cost of constructing and equipping the Police Station.
This includes not only direct construction costs, but also design, engineering,
architectural and similar costs. It also includes the cost of law enforcement
equipment, both inside and outside the facility, such as police vehicles. However,
police officers’ salaries and personnel costs are not included.

The tax includes exemptions for senior citizen households of 65 years of age or
older and for low income households. Upon adoption, the Council shall define
these categories, as well as to adopt other provisions to implement the special
tax. Such provisions must be consistent with the ordinance as approved by the
Signal Hill voters. This measure also requires preparation of an annual report
updating residents on the status of the project and funding.

The utility tax covers all utilities including gas, electricity, water, telephone, cable
services and is estimated to add $12.60 per month to a typical utility bill (of
$420). The tax is automatically repealed in 15 years, or earlier if the Police
Station is fully funded before that time.

If adopted by the voters, this measure would take effect ten days after the
declaration of the election results by the City Council.”

<impartialend>