<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H
PORTERVILLE POLICE, FIRE AND


CITY OF PORTERVILLE

The Porterville Police, Fire and Emergency Response/9-1 -1 Safety Measure proposes to raise
revenue for the purpose of funding police, fire and public safety facilities, equipment and
personnel, by authorizing a special transactions and use tax ("sales tax") of one-half of a cent
(.50 percent), and approving an ordinance adding Article IIA to Chapter 22 of the Porterville
Municipal Code. The tax would be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes and
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes the City to levy or increase a
transactions and use tax (i.e. "sales tax") at a rate of .25 percent or multiple thereof, for specific
purposes as set forth by the City, if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by at least two-
thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election on that issue. If approved by the
voters, the sales tax will become effective no sooner than April 1, 2006.

The revenues raised from the sales tax will be use to hire and equip additional police officers and
new firefighters. It will provide for the maintenance and expansion of patrol and gang
suppression activities, the purchase of additional public safety equipment, will aid in the funding
of a new fire station, and will be used to improve the 9-1-1 emergency dispatch equipment to
improve emergency response time. A small portion of the revenue, not to exceed 15 percent,
shall be used for the restoration and maintenance of literacy programs in the City due to the
established connection between illiteracy and crime.

The sales tax increase will be subject to certain conditions included in the program guidelines
plan made a part of the ordinance. Such conditions provide that the expenditures pursuant to
the plan be independently audited on an annual basis, that an independent citizen’s oversight
committee review the revenues from and expenditures of the special tax funds, and that findings
of the auditor and oversight committee be reviewed by the City Council and made available to
the public. The City Manager is required to re-certify the plan of expenditures at the time of
submittal of the budget to the City Council. The City Council is prohibited from using these funds
to replace General Fund dollars budgeted for normal operations at the previous year’s service
levels.

<impartialend>