<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE V

City of Salinas

Emergency Restoration and Protection of Public Services
Measure (General Transactions and Use Tax)

The City Council of the City of Salinas has placed this measure
on the November 8, 2005 ballot to ask the voters to approve an
ordinance that would enact a temporary ten (10) year, one-half of
one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax within the City of
Salinas. This would be the equivalent of a half-cent tax on an item
that costs a dollar or fifty cents on an item that costs $100.

The current sales and use tax rate in the City is 7.25%. The
City receives the equivalent of one percent (1%) of the current tax
rate. The transactions and use tax, like the sales and use tax, would
be levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at
retail. Accordingly, the total tax rate for most purchases in the City
would increase to 7.75%, 1.5% of which would go to the City, if the
voters approved the measure.

As proposed, the tax would sunset on its 10th anniversary, on
or about April 1, 2016, unless extended by the voters.

The revenue generated from the proposed tax would be deposited
in the City’s general fund and, accordingly, all monies collected
would be used by the City to pay for the usual and current City
general public services such as police, fire safety, paramedics,
libraries, recreation, and street and park maintenance. As such,
this ballot measure is a “general tax,” rather than a “special tax.”

The ballot measure also provides for an independent oversight
committee. The Mayor and City Council shall each annually appoint’
one member of the public to serve as an oversight committee for
the revenue that the City receives from the proposed tax and to
report and recommend the use thereof to the City Council.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levying the one-
half of one percent (0.5%) transactions and use tax for 10 years,
with oversight by an independent committee of Salinas residents.
A “no” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure V would be approved
if it received a majority (over 50%) of “yes” votes.

<impartialend>