<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

The People of the City of La Habra do ordain as follows:

The currently existing City of La Habra Utility Users’ Tax, originally
enacted by the City Council in 1992 by ordinance number 1445 and as
amended in 2001 by ordinance numbers 1587, 1595 and 1596 and as
approved as Measure II by the voters of the City of La Habra on March 5,
2002, is hereby modified by this measure.

Funds from the tax are to continue to be collected for general city
services and programs. An annual audit is to continue to be conducted
regarding the revenue and expenditures relating to the tax. Exemptions are
to remain in effect for low income seniors and the disabled. The tax rate for
,all utilities covered by the ordinance shad be permanently reduced from 6%
to 4.5% for all utilities except electricity, to be maintained at the current rate
of 4.5%, effective July 1,2006. The termination date of December 31,2007
shall be revoked, and the tax shall become permanent at 4.5% for all
utilities. Clarifying revisions to the telephone communications tax are made
to eliminate the Land Mobile exemption, modify the non-regulated utility
exemption, specifically include voice over internet protocol, modify the
definition of telephone communication services to include ancillary
services, and provide that future adoption of any statewide definition of
telecommunications services shall apply.

This Measure seeks modifications to the existing Utility Users’ Tax,
including reducing the tax on all utilities to 4.5%, except electricity to be
maintained at the current rate of 4.5%, effective July 1,2006, and extending
the tax beyond December 31, 2007. The Measure would also clarify the
definitions affecting the tax relating to telephone communication services, in
order to include current telecommunications technology, identify ancillary
services included in such services, and modify certain exemptions to the
telephone communication services utility users' tax. it also provides that
subsequent definitions relating to telecommunications services adopted by
state law will apply to the City’s tax. The tax was originally enacted by the
City Council on December 15,1992. The voters approved the existing tax.at
an election on March 5,2002. The tax-currently includes exemptions for low
income seniors and the disabled, includes a requirement that an annual
audit be done of the revenue and expenditures relating to the tax, and
provides that the tax terminate on December 31,2007.

The Utility Users' Tax provides just over $ 4.6 million of the City’s general
fund revenue, or approximately 14% of the City’s general fund operating
budget, which is used primarily for provision of the City’s basic services such
as public safety, transportation, parks and other general services.

A “yes” vote on this Measure would reduce the tax from 6% to 4.5% on all
utilities, maintain a 4.5% rate on electricity, effective July 1,2006. Approval
of the Measure would also extend the tax at the rate of 4.5% for all utilities
beyond the current termination date of December 31, 2007. If the Measure
is approved, the tax will also be updated to include language applicable to
current technology with respect to telecommunication services, to clarify the
definition of telecommunications services, modify certain exemptions, and
provide for application of subsequently enacted state law defining
telecommunication services. Existing provisions of the tax relating to
exemption of low income seniors and the disabled would remain
unchanged, as would the requirement that an annual audit of the tax
revenue and expenditures continue to be conducted. These provisions
cannot be changed without a vote of the people.

A "no” vote on this Measure would allow the City to continue collecting
the Utility Users' Tax at the current rate of 4.5% on electricity and 6% of all
other utilities until the expiration of the tax on December 31, 2007. Until
expiration of the tax, existing provisions relating to low income seniors and
the disabled being exempt from the tax would remain unchanged, as would
the requirement that an annual audit of the tax revenue and expenditures
continue to be conducted. After December 31,2007, collection of the utility
users’ tax would cease, and the City's general fund revenue would be
reduced by 14%. Reductions in expenditures would then have to be made
accordingly by the City Council, which could include employee lay offs,
consolidation of employee positions and City programs, elimination and/or
reduction of funding for City programs.

<impartialend>