

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE X


The City of Santa Cruz operates its own water, sewer and
refuse collection utilities. Each utility is separately
operated by the City through the use of fees which are
collected from the City’s utility service users when they
pay their monthly utility bill for water, sewer and refuse
collection. Historically Santa Cruz has dealt with its water,
sewer and refuse collection enterprises in a fashion
analogous to the manner in which other cities with private
utility providers deal with those private utilities. Therefore,
just as private utilities have historically paid franchise fees
to the cities in which they operate, the Santa Cruz water,
sewer and refuse collection enterprises have historically
paid in lieu franchise fees to the City. The City, in turn,
has deposited those fees into its General Fund in
recognition of the fact that General Fund money is
typically used to maintain the street system relied upon by
the utility enterprises for the delivery of utility services to
Santa Cruz residents and businesses.

On March 23, 2005, a California appellate court issued a
decision holding that a city-owned utility cannot collect in
lieu franchise fees without voter approval because this
practice violates Article of the California Constitution
(Proposition 218). The court found that a city utility’s
collection of in lieu franchise fees from its customers
which, in turn, are transferred to the city’s general fund,
constitutes a general tax levy for purposes of Proposition
218. Because Proposition 218 requires voter approval for
taxes, a city utility cannot continue to collect in lieu
franchise fees from its customers unless city electors by a
majority vote approve collection of the in lieu franchise fee
in the form of a general tax.

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would therefore
enact a franchise tax to replace the formerly collected in lieu
franchise fee. The franchise tax would be paid by all City
utility service users who reside or are located in the City. The
franchise tax would be paid each month as part of the service
user’s monthly utility billing. The franchise tax would be
computed as follows: 3% of charges made by the City for
water delivered to the service user (including monthly service
charge) + 3% of charges made by the City for sewer service
received by the service user + 12% of charges made by the
City for refuse collection/recycling service received by the
service user = the service user’s total monthly franchise tax.
The franchise tax would be separate from, and in addition to,
the 7% utility users tax which is already paid by City utility
service customers.

Because the revenue generated by the proposed
franchise tax would be deposited in the City’s General
Fund and used by the City to provide municipal services
paid for by the General Fund including police, fire, park,
recreation and street maintenance services, the tax is
considered a “general tax” and requires a simple majority
vote for approval.

