<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

Ballot Measure E asks the voters to approve a transactions and use tax ordinance (the “sales tax ordinance") that would increase the City’s sales and use tax
rate by 0.50% or one-half cent for every dollar of goods purchased. State law permits cities to impose a local sales and use tax. If Measure E is approved by the
voters, the local sales and use tax rate in the City of Fairfield will increase from 1 % to 1.5%. The total sales and use tax rate currently paid by purchasers of goods
in the City of Fairfield, which includes the sales tax rate paid to the State of California and the Solano County Library, is 7.375%. The sales tax ordinance would
have the effect of increasing the total sales and use tax rate in the City of Fairfield to 7.875%. The sales and use tax is imposed on the price paid for the purchase
of tangible personal property at retail.

The proposed tax is a general tax that may be used for any municipal purpose. The City Council unanimously voted to place this sales tax measure on the ballot in
order to fund essential public services such as police, fire, street and park maintenance as well as other general city services.The tax is subject to an independent
annual financial audit that will review whether the tax is collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of the proposed ordinance. In
addition, an independent Fairfield taxpayer’s committee is required to be established by the City Council to review the expenditure of the tax revenues raised by
the proposed tax. If adopted by the voters, the tax would be in effect for ten years and terminate on June 30,2016.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, commonly known as Prop. 218, requires that the proposed tax be approved by a majority of the voters voting on
the ballot measure. A “yes" vote on Measure E enacts the sales tax ordinance. It is estimated by the City’s Finance Department that this measure will raise an
additional $7.4 million in general fund revenue for the City beginning in the 2006/2007 fiscal year. A “no” vote will result in the tax not being adopted.

<impartialend>