

Impartial Analysis from San Leandro City Attorney
For many years, the City of San Leandro has required all businesses operating within the City of San Leandro to obtain a business license and pay a fee for that license. The purpose of this program is to both regulate business and to raise revenue for the City. 
There are two parts to the business license fee. Businesses are required to pay an annual base fee to obtain the license and also pay unit fees which are calculated in different ways based on the type of business. For instance, some businesses are charged a flat fee, some are charged a fee per employee and some are charged a fee calculated on the gross receipts that the business receives. 
San Leandro's current business license tax rates are set forth in Section 2-2-500 of the San Leandro Municipal Code. These rates are at the same level as they were in 1993. The City of San Leandro has proposed Measure I that would amend Section 2-2-500 of the Municipal Code and increase the City's business license tax rates for all businesses. These increased rates will be levied on existing businesses effective January 1, 2007, unless otherwise specified. 
The purpose of Measure I is to help the City manage its continuing budget deficit and to fund a variety of basic City services, which include, but are not limited to police and fire services, senior program, youth activities, street repairs, park maintenance and library programs and hours. A new "parking lot" business license fee category has been added and a rate established for that business activity. Measure I also provides that the fees shall be adjusted annually by an amount equal to the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for All Urban Consumers for the San Francisco + Oakland + San Jose metropolitan area. Voter approval is not required for annual CPI adjustments. 
Because the proceeds from the increase in the business license tax rates will be used for general fund purposes, Measure I requires a majority affirmative ("yes") vote for approval.
