<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition L would raise revenue for the City of Vista by authorizing a one-half percent transaction
and use tax (commonly referred to as a “sales tax”) within the City of Vista. The one-half percent tax
would be paid in addition to current sales taxes. If approved by a majority of the voters, the tax
would go into effect April 1,2007.	

Proposition L provides that the sales tax is to be used for “the general governmental purposes of the
City and be received into the general fund of the City.” Because this sales tax would be a general
tax, it could be used for any legal municipal purpose. The City would not be legally bound to use the
tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular services, facilities or programs. The tax
would expire in thirty years on March 31,2037.

Proposition L authorizes but does not direct the City Council to use the proceeds of any bonds
issued by the Vista Joint Powers Financing Authority for any general governmental purposes,
including, without limitation or obligation, the construction or operation of fire facilities, police
facilities, streets and roads, youth athletic fields and facilities, cultural facilities, or a new civic center
facility. It also authorizes the City to appropriate funds for the rent, lease or construction of new
municipal administrative facilities having a contract value in excess of $300,000. This authorization
is intended to comply with Chapter 1.24.030 of the Vista Municipal Code, which was enacted by
Proposition T in the election of November 6, 1979. In addition, to the extent that any provision of
Proposition S, the tax initiative from the election of November 6,1964, could be construed to conflict
with any provision of this sales tax ordinance, then to that extent the conflicting provisions would be
repealed.

Proposition L requires the City’s independent auditors to complete an annual Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report. Their report must review whether the
sales tax revenues collected by the City are collected, managed and expended in accordance with
the requirements of applicable law. The proposition also requires the City Council to establish a
Sales Tax Oversight Committee to review the expenditure of all City sales tax revenues. The
Committee must consist of at least five members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council, and they must be residents of or employed in Vista. The terms of the Committee members
and their specific duties will be established by resolution of the City Council.

Proposition L would make Vista Ordinance 2006-15 operative. The ordinance, which has also been
reviewed by the State Board of Equalization, is the legal instrument that authorizes the additional
sales tax, but only if it is approved by a majority of the voters at the November 7, 2006, election.
The ordinance was adopted by the Vista City Council on August 8, 2006, and a copy of it is printed
as part of these ballot materials.

<impartialend>