<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE D

In conjunction with other local governments in the Ross
Valley, the City Council of the City of Larkspur placed
Measure D on the November 7, 2006 ballot to ask the voters to consider continuing and increasing the amount of an
existing parcel tax that funds paramedic services provided
by the Ross Valley Paramedic Authority (“RVPA”).

A tax funding the RVPA has existed since 1983 and was
last increased by the voters in 1991. In 2002, the voters of
Larkspur approved continuing the tax at the 1991 rate.
Currently, the tax is $30 per year for each residential unit
and each 1,500 square feet of commercial space within the
City of Larkspur. The revenue from the tax may be used
only to fund the operating costs of the RVPA, the sole
function of which is to provide paramedic services. The
tax is a significant source of funding for RVPA operations.
Unless extended, the tax will expire automatically on June
30, 2007.

Measure D proposes to continue the tax for an additional
four years, to June 30, 2011. It also proposes to increase
the tax as follows: in the first year (2007-08), the tax rate
would increase to $39; thereafter, the maximum rate would
increase by $3 annually, to $48 in the final year (2010-11).
The RVPA Board would be allowed to set the rate for each
year at any amount up to that year’s maximum. The
Board’s decision regarding each year’s rate would be
based on the RVPA’s financial needs at the time. Use of the
tax revenue would continue to be restricted to the provision of paramedic services. After June 30, 2011, the tax
would expire, unless extended by another vote.

A “yes” vote means that the tax will be continued for four
years; that the tax rate will be increased to $39 next year;
and that the RVPA Board of Directors may increase the tax
annually by $3, up to a maximum of $48 in the final year.
A “no” vote means that the tax will terminate on June 30,
2007.

Voter approval of Measure D is required by Article XIIIC
of the California Constitution. The tax proposed will not
become effective unless approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting on the Measure. A copy of the resolution
approving the tax is included in the sample ballot.

<impartialend>