<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

Measure G, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, will extend for six (6) years, at the current tax rates, the Park
Maintenance Tax, a special tax adopted by the Davis voters in March
2002. Unless extended by the voters, the existing 2002 Park Maintenance
Tax will sunset and expire on June 30, 2006. If Measure G is adopted,
it will extend Park Maintenance Tax beginning July 1, 2006.

Measure G, the extended Park Maintenance Tax, as set forth in
Ordinance No. 2243, will continue funding for the maintenance and
operation of community parks, greenbelts, open space, street and
public lighting, swimming pools, and related public facilities. As a
special tax, the tax revenue must be placed in a special fund and
can only be used for these purposes and incidental expenses related
to these purposes.

The Park Maintenance Tax will continue to be imposed on parcels
of property within the City based on the use of the property. The
maximum tax per parcel per fiscal year (July 1-June 30) under Measure
G will be calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living
Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$49,00 per unit
$49.00 per unit
$20.00 per resident
$40.00 per 1,000 square feet
of improved Building
Space up to a maximum
of 10,000 square feet
$12.80 per employee up to
a maximum of
30 employees
$14.30 per 1,000 square feet
of Improved Building
Space up to a maximum
of 10,000 square feet
$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

These amounts are the maximum tax rates for each type of use.

If approved by the voters, the tax would be imposed at the rates
set forth above for the first year of the extended tax. For the second,
and successive years of the tax, the City Council may set the tax
rate at an amount not to exceed the maximum tax rate. In the event
that the voters approve another type of revenue measure, or tax, that
states that it will replace this park tax prior to the expiration of this
park tax, the City will cease collecting this park tax consistent with
the provisions of the replacement measure.

Measure G includes several exemptions to the tax including an
exemption for public property and requirements to continue the existing
low income exemption.

The Park Maintenance Tax would continue to be collected with
the ad valorem property taxes for each parcel, unless the City later
decided to collect the tax with other City taxes and charges.

Measure G would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2012 and
could not be collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters
voting in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of the
tax.

<impartialend>