<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURES

The City Council of the City of Pinole placed Measure S on the
November 7, 2006 ballot to ask voters to consider an ordinance imposing
a general transactions and use (sales) tax of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) to be administered by the State Board of Equalization. The
proposed tax will increase the local sales tax rate in Pinole from the
current 6.25% to 8.75%. Measure S is a general tax and would only
become effective if approved by a majority of voters casting a vote on the
Measure at the November 7,2006 general election.

City Staff projects that the General Fund will be out of balance
during fiscal year 2008-2009, and will not be sufficient to maintain the
Minimum Reserve level. At the current rate of expenditure, Staff projects
that the City will likely experience a budgetary deficit by fiscal year 2010-
2011. The projected budgetary shortfall can be attributed to factors
outside of the City's control, including significant increases in the cost of
employee health insurance and retirement benefits, decreases in
revenue from existing taxes and fees, property tax take-aways by the
State, and general increases in the cost of materials and supplies
necessary for City operations.

Absent an additional source of General Fund revenue, the City
may not be able to maintain adequate staff and service levels. For
example. Pinole Police may not have enough patrol officers to confront increases in crime, particularly around the Pinole Vista Shopping Center
area. The Fire Department may not be able to continue to staff the
Pinole Valley Fire Station with minimum firefighting crews. The Public
Works Department may not be able to maintain roadways, storm drains
and other water control and discharge infrastructures.

The proposed transaction and use (sales) tax is estimated to
generate approximately $1,800,000.00 per year for the City of Pinole.
This is a local tax which will be collected and placed in the City of
Pinole’s General Fund account. Under Preposition 1A, this local tax
revenue cannot be taken away by the State or County. This revenue
would be sufficient to prevent the forecasted deficit in the Minimum
Reserve and would allow the City to provide adequate levels of public
safety, public works, and necessary support services. This tax does not
have a “sunset provision” and will continue to be levied unless repealed
by the voters. Proceeds from the local transactions and use (sales) tax
may be expended for any municipal purpose. If the tax Is not approved
by the voters, the City would likely have to Implement reductions in
general municipal services.

<impartialend>