<impartial>

MEASURE “G”

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure G proposes to raise revenue for the specific purpose of street, road,
and drainage rehabilitation and improvement by authorizing a one-half of one percent
(0.50%) supplementation to the existing retail sales tax within the City of Big Bear
Lake. The tax would be paid in addition to current State and local sales taxes and
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as the existing sales
taxes.

The City Council currently appropriates approximately one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) annually for street, road, and drainage rehabilitation and
improvement. This amount has been deemed by the City Council to be insufficient to
cover all costs associated with rehabilitating and improving the City’s streets, roads
and drainage system. The City Council, with input from the public, proposed a retail
sales tax measure to create sufficient additional funding. The City estimates that this
measure will create approximately nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000.00) in
additional revenue.

If Measure G is approved, all funds from the Measure will be deposited into a
restricted account which can only be used for street, road, and drainage rehabilitation
and improvement. Additionally, if Measure G is approved, the City Council shall
provide for a Citizens Oversight Committee. The Citizens Oversight Committee is
charged with reviewing the annual financial audit and expenditures of funds collected
through Measure G, determining whether funds are spent in accordance with the
Street, Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Improvement Expenditure Plan, and
annually issuing public reports on their findings.

All funds collected through Measure G shall only be administered by the State
Board of Equalization. Measure G shall remain in effect for a period of ten (10) years
beginning at the commencement of collection of this tax by the State Board of
Equalization, and then shall automatically terminate unless earlier repealed by the
Voters or by the automatic termination of the measure shown below.

Automatic termination will occur if the City Council fails to continue to
annually spend at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) of general funds and other
available City funds, separate and apart from the funds collected as a result of the
sales tax increase, towards street, road, and drainage rehabilitation and improvement
projects. If the City fails to annually spend this amount, the Citizens Oversight
Committee will advise the City to immediately notify the State Board of Equalization, in
writing, that this tax shall be terminated.

The City Council of the City of Big Bear Lake adopted a resolution on
February 27, 2006, calling this election and submitting this Measure to a vote of the
electors of the City. A “Yes” vote by a two-thirds majority voting on Measure G is a
vote to approve and allow the City to supplement the current retail sales tax by one-
half of one percent (0.50%). A “No” vote on Measure G would maintain the sales tax
at its current rate of seven percent and three quarters of one percent (7.75%).

<impartialend>