<impartial>

IMPARTIAL CITY ATTORNEY ANALYSIS
MEASURE “L”
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR ROAD
MAINTENANCE

The City Council of the City of Clearlake has called
a special election and placed this measure on the June
6, 2006 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance
that would enact a temporary twenty (20) year, one-half
of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax within
the City of Clearlake, to be used for road maintenance.
This would be the equivalent of a half-cent tax on an item
that costs a dollar, or fifty cents on an item that costs
$100.

The current sales and use tax rate in the City is
7.75%. The tax rate is divided as follows: 6.25% goes to
the State, 0.25% goes to Lake County, and 1.25% goes
to the City. Of the portion received by the City, 0.50% is
earmarked solely for public safety pursuant to a local initiative passed by the voters of Clearlake in 1996. The
transactions and use tax, like the sales and use tax,
would be levied on the sale or use of tangible personal
property sold at retail. Accordingly, the total tax rate for
taxable purchases in the City would increase to 8.25%,
1.75% of which would go to the City, if the voters
approved the measure.

As proposed, the tax would sunset on its 20th
anniversary, unless extended by the voters.

This tax is a “special tax” rather than a “general tax.”
The revenue generated from the proposed tax would be
deposited into a special fund separate from the general
fund, and the proceeds could be used solely for road and
street maintenance pursuant to an Expenditure Plan
adopted by the Clearlake City Council. The Expenditure
Plan is available for review at Clearlake City Hall, and
sets forth specifically how the proceeds of the tax will be
spent for road maintenance. The Expenditure Plan
adopted by the City Council covers the first five years of
expenditures of tax proceeds, and the Expenditure Plan
may be amended once each year, through an ordinance
- of the Clearlake City Council following a duly noticed
public hearing.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levy-
ing the one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and
use tax for 20 years, the proceeds to be used for road
maintenance. A “yes” vote would also increase the City’s
appropriations limit for fiscal year 2006-2007 by the
amount of tax proceeds received by the City for that period, as required by the California Constitution, to enable
the City to expend the proceeds of the tax. A “no” vote is
a vote against the tax.

Measure L would be approved if it receives “yes”
votes from at least two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on
this measure at the June 6, 2006 special election.

<impartialend>