<impartial>

MEASURE “Z”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OF MEASURE Z - 1/4 OF A CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

The proposed Ordinance, if approved by the voters, would amend the San Bernardino
Municipal Code, to add Chapter 3.57 imposing a 1/4 of a cent transactions and use
tax, upon the sale or use of items for which the City is authorized to impose such tax.
The City estimates that $1.5 Million will be collected for Fiscal Year 2006-2007, if this
tax is passed.

The monies collected will be placed in the general fund of the City and may be used
for any lawful purpose of the City. Such a transactions and use tax is provided for by
California law. The transactions tax is applied to the sale of goods which are sold in
stores. The use tax is a tax imposed on the storage and/or use of personal property
located in the City.

This "transactions and use tax" is commonly referred to as a "sales tax." The City
currently collects a one percent (1%) sales tax pursuant to Chapter 3.56 of the City’s
Municipal Code. This proposed sales tax, if approved, is in addition to the one percent
(1%) sales tax currently collected.

This Ordinance, if adopted by the voters, will be effective immediately, although
collection of the tax will not begin until April 1, 2007. The Ordinance will expire 15
years after the date it becomes effective. Future voter approval would be required to
increase the 1/4 of a cent sales tax or to extend its term beyond the 15-year term.
Without such voter approval this tax will end in 15 years.

The Ordinance requires the Mayor and Common Council to create a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee, which shall review the expenditure of proceeds of the tax and
report on those expenditures to the voters at least once a year.

A "Yes" vote would be a vote to approve the Ordinance imposing a 1/4 of a cent
transactions and use tax upon the sale of items for which the City is authorized to
collect such tax pursuant to law.

A "No" vote would be a vote not to approve the Ordinance, and thus no additional
transactions and use tax would be collected.

<impartialend>