

Analysis:

This measure is being submitted to voters within the
incorporated city limits of the City of Biggs (City), pursuant to
the requirements of Proposition 218, which was approved by
California voters in November 1996. Proposition 218 prohibits
new taxes and/or tax increases within the City unless and until
the new tax or tax increase is submitted to the City’s voters
within that area and approved by a two-thirds vote.

This measure would authorize a proposed special tax within
the City, as specified in Resolution 2006-14, adopted by the
Biggs City Council on July 17, 2006, for stand-by costs of
providing emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley
Memorial Hospital, a critical access hospital. If the measure
is approved by two-thirds or more of the votes cast on the
measure, the proposed special tax, in the amount of $70.00
per Equivalent Residential Unit, will be imposed on real
property in the City for fiscal year 2006-07 and each fiscal
year thereafter, for a period of ten (10) years. The proposed
tax would expire after ten (10) years. The amount of the
proposed special tax for each parcel of residential real
property would be based upon the number of Equivalent
Residential Units.

For the purposes of defining an Equivalent Residential Unit,
the following categories have been established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Multi-family residential unit (.75);

(3)	Condominium (.75);

(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without
residential units shall not be subject to the Tax.

The imposition and levy of the tax is expressly conditioned

upon the adoption by the voters within the unincorporated
area of the County known as County Service Area 37 and the city of Gridley and the approval of
their respective electorates, of special tax measures within
their respective jurisdictions which also provide funding for the
hospital emergency room at the same rates and for the same
duration as the proposed special tax.

The tax would not be imposed upon real property owned by
the County, the State of California, any other public district or
agency of the State or the United States of America.

The tax could not be increased in the future unless another
election were held in the City approving the increase by two-thirds or more of the votes cast.

The amount of the tax imposed each year would appear as a
separate item on each tax bill and would be collected by the
County in the same manner and at the same time as property
taxes.

The revenues generated from the tax could only be used for
stand-by costs of providing emergency room services at the
Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital.

