<impartial>

The City of Crescent City submits to the voters for approval of
an Increase Of The Transient Occupancy Tax.

The City of Crescent City is proposing a General Tax Measure to
be submitted to the voters in the City of Crescent City. The proposed
tax is a general tax, for general governmental purposes, and not a
special or ad valorem tax.

The tax requires a majority vote of those voting on the measure.
Revenue raised by the tax would go to the general fund of the City
of Crescent City to be used for general governmental purposes.
Examples of general governmental purpose expenditures are local
services such as fire, police, recreation, parks, senior programs,
street maintenance and tourism marketing, which are services that
benefit travelers.

The transient occupancy tax of the “City of Crescent City is contained
in Chapter 3.20 of the Crescent City Municipal Code and Resolution
1993-17. This tax would apply to hotels and other lodging facilities
as defined in the Crescent City Municipal Code, from persons
occupying hotels for 30 consecutive days or less. California city's
transient occupancy tax rates have an approximate range of 8% to
19%. The current tax of the City of Crescent City is ten percent
(10%) of the rent charged by the lodging operator. This measure
would increase the tax by two percent (2%).

If the proposed general tax receives the approval of a majority of
the voters voting on the measure it will pass. The tax would become
effective on the date the City Council certifies the results of the
election and passes a Resolution indicating the amount of the new
tax ads passed. The proposed general tax is not limited to any time
period. If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure,
the tax would remain in effect until later amended.

A “Yes” vote favors passage of this general tax on transient occupancy
only, while a "No” vote is against passage of this general tax on
transient occupancy.

<impartialend>