CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K
CITY OF RIO VISTA

Measure K, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure, would adopt Ordinance Number 618, which would replace the
City's existing 8% Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax with a 10% Transient
Occupancy Tax. The Transient Occupancy Tax would be imposed on guests
staying at any hotel or motel within the City of Rio Vista.

The City's existing Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax imposes
an 8% tax on the gross receipts of each hotel and motel in the City of Rio
Vista. The City Municipal Code also provides that 1% of the Hotel and Motel
Gross Receipts Tax is forwarded to the Rio Vista Chamber of Commerce for
community promotional purposes. Currently, the Chamber of Commerce is
required to provide the City with a report on the use of the tax funds on an
annual basis.

The proposed Transient Occupancy Tax requires that guests of
a hotel or motel must pay a ten percent tax on the amount of rent charged
by the operator of the hotel or motel. For example, if a person is charged
one hundred dollars for a hotel room, the Tax would equal ten dollars, or ten
percent of the amount charged for the room. The total amount to be paid by
the hotel guest would be one hundred ten dollars. The tax would be collected
by the hotel or motel at the same lime as the rent charged, and would then be
passed through to the City on a quarterly basis. The Transient Occupancy Tax
would only be applicable to people who stay in the hotel for a period of thirty
consecutive days or less.

The Tax is a "general tax," meaning that the revenue raised from
the tax would go into the City's general fund and could be used for any legal
governmental purpose, including, but not limited to, fire, general administrative,
library, parks and recreation, and police services. The City would not be bound
to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular projects,
facilities, or programs. The City additionally is not required to forward a portion
of the Transient Occupancy Tax to the Chamber of Commerce, as is currently
required for the Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax. II passed, the Transient
Occupancy Tax would replace the Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax and
would become effective on December 1,2006.

