<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TOWN ATTORNEY
OF MEASURE T

Under existing law, the Town of Mammoth Lakes ("Town") imposes
a Transient Occupancy Tax- commonly called a "Bed Tax" - at the
rate of twelve percent (12%). However, one percentage point of
Transient Occupancy Tax, which was approved by the voters as part
of Measure 96-A, sunsets on June 30,2011. Thereafter, the Transient
Occupancy Tax will be imposed at the rate of eleven percent (11%).

California law provides that taxes may not be extended or
increased without a vote of the electorate. In order to raise revenue
to fund both existing and future Town programs and services, the
Town Council voted to place the issue of increasing the Transient
Occupancy Tax rate before the electorate.

If Measure ”T" passes, the Transient Occupancy Tax will be
imposed at the rate of thirteen percent (13%) without sunset
commencing October 1,2006. The additional Occupancy Tax revenue
will be placed in the general fund and will be used for general
governmental purposes.

If Measure "T" fails, the Transient Occupancy Tax will continue
to be imposed at the rate of twelve percent (12%) until June 30,
2011; thereafter the Transient Occupancy Tax will be imposed at the
rate of eleven percent (11%).

A "Yes” vote is a vote to impose the Transient Occupancy Tax at
the rate of thirteen percent (13%). Additional revenue resulting from
this tax rate will be placed in the general fund and will be used for
both existing and future Town programs and services.

A “No” vote is a vote not to impose the Transient Occupancy Tax
at the rate of thirteen percent (13%), but rather to continue to impose
the Transient Occupancy Tax at the present rate of twelve percent
(12%) until June 30, 2011 at which time the Transient Occupancy
Tax rate will revert to eleven percent (11%). If Measure “T” fails the
additional increased revenue which would otherwise have been
generated will not be available for either existing or future Town
programs or services.

<impartialend>