<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “Q"

If adopted by a majority of voters, this ballot Measure “Q" places an
ordinance before the voters to impose or to not impose a local
transactions and use tax (“Transactions and Use Tax") of three-quarters of a cent (.75%) within the jurisdiction of the City of Cathedral City.

Currently, the State of California imposes a statewide Sales and Use Tax
at the rate of 7.25% and the County of Riverside imposes a countywide
transactions and use tax at the rate of 0.50% upon all retailers for the
privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail establishments and
for the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased from a retailer.

Currently, the City has the authority, subject to voter approval, to impose
a tax in increments of 0.25% up to a maximum amount of 1.50%. The
City is proposing a local Transactions and Use Tax in the amount of
three-quarters of a cent (.75%). This proposed Transactions and Use
Tax would be imposed in addition to the State of California's 7.25% Sales
and Use Tax and the County of Riverside's 0.50% transactions and use
tax currently imposed within the City’s boundaries. Therefore, if the
proposed Measure "Q" is enacted by the electorate, then the total tax
imposed within the City would be increased from 7.75% to 8.50%.

If the City's Transactions and Use Tax is enacted, the proceeds from the
City's Transactions and Use Tax collected within the jurisdiction of the
City will be paid to the State Board of Equalization, which will then
forward the tax proceeds to the City. The City will deposit the tax
proceeds info the City’s General fund. The City Council of the City
spends General fund monies according to its adopted budget in support
of the City's ordinary and necessary operations including, but not limited
to, public safety services such as police, fire and paramedic services,
planning and public works services, and youth and senior programs.
Detailed information concerning the City’s budget is a matter of public
record and is available at the Cathedral City City Hall and at the
Cathedral City Public Library.

A “yes" vote on this Measure means that you want a local Transactions
and Use Tax of .75% to be imposed within the jurisdiction of the City of
Cathedral City,

A “no” vote on this Measure means that you do not want a local
Transactions and Use Tax of .75% to be imposed within the jurisdiction of
the City of Cathedral City.

<impartialend>