<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H

City of Yreka Adoption of a Special Tax for the Yreka Volunteer
Fire Department

The City of Yreka is proposing a Special Tax Measure to be submitted
to the voters in the City of Yreka. The City of Yreka has historically
supported the Yreka Volunteer Fire Department from its general fund.
The specific purpose for which the special tax is levied is to establish
a stable source of funds in order to acquire fire fighting equipment
or rescue vehicles, fund firefighter training, wages, and benefits, and
for the improvement or construction of fire stations, substations, or
training facilities. The special tax cannot be used for any other purpose.

The tax, if passed by two-thirds vote for those voting on the
measure, would be levied on parcels having improvements of more
than $10,000 as defined in the measure. The rate of the tax depends
on use or square footage of improvements. The special tax rates are:
$60 per parcel per year for parcels with single family residences and
duplexes. For multi-family residential parcels the tax ranges from $75
per parcel per year for parcels with three to five units to $250 per
parcels per year for parcels with 11 or more units. For non-residential,
commercial or industrial parcels the tax ranges from $75 per parcel
per year for parcels with 1 or 2 units to $350 per year per parcel for
parcels having 7 or more business units or total structures exceeding

15,000	square feet. The special tax will not be levied on any property
owned by the State of California, the Federal Government or an

agency or subdivision thereof. The special tax would be payable in
monthly installments and collected at the same time and in the same
manner as ordinary City water fees and be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedures in the case of delinquency as
provided for those fees. This special tax has an annual adjustor for
inflation using a formula based upon the Construction Cost Index in
The Engineering News-Record, or any successor to that index.

The purposed special tax requires the approval of at least two-
thirds of the voters voting on the measure and, if approved, would
be effective immediately upon certification of the election results by
the City Council. The special tax would thereafter appear as a
separate item on the water bill issued monthly by the City of Yreka
and would be payable on the first day of the month commencing
the first month following approval by the voters and certification by
the City Council of the measure.

A “Yes” vote favors passage of this special tax, while a “No” vote
is against passage of this special tax.

<impartialend>