<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Attorney has prepared the following Impartial Analysis of Proposition E as follows:

Proposition E is a special tax measure which will change the Transient Occupancy Tax
("TOT") of the City of Solana Beach to set up special funds for sand replenishment and
other coastal-related projects in the City. The TOT is the tax charged to visitors who
stay in hotels in the City for thirty (30) days or less.

Currently, the ten percent (10%) TOT is not earmarked for any particular service, but is
used to fund general governmental operations, such as roads, police, fire protection
and other City services. The proposed Measure will phase in a three percent (3%)
increase in the TOT as follows:

10%, effective until December 31, 2006;

11%, effective from January 1, 2007 until December 31,2007;

12%, effective from January 1,2008 until December 31, 2008; and

13%, effective January 1, 2009.

While the first ten percent (10%) of the TOT will continue being used for general
governmental services, the additional three percent (3%) will be used for special
purposes only as follows:

(1)	Two-thirds of the amount collected in excess of 10% shall be deposited
in a Special Fund, for projects such as environmentally benign sand
replenishment and retention projects; construction of coastal access
facilities such as stairways; parks; and beach area public service facilities.
Funding of sand replenishment and retention projects shall be given
priority over other projects. Revenues from this fund shall not be used
for seawalls or operational activities. All expenditures made shall be
consistent with any certified Local Coastal Plan, adopted by the City Council

(2)	One-third of the amount collected in excess of 10% shall be for deposit
in a Special Fund, for activities such as local business and visitor
promotion, such as Chamber of Commerce assistance and North
County Convention and Visitors Bureau assistance; special event
assistance; public art projects; and enhancements to areas serving
visitors including the Highway 101 corridor and Cedros Avenue.

This Proposition shall become law if it is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters.
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Proposition E.

<impartialend>