<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y-06

If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure,
Measure Y-06 will authorize an additional 1/2-cent sales tax within the
City of San Luis Obispo. This 1/2-cent sales tax would be a “general-
purpose tax,” meaning that the revenue raised from the tax would go
into the City's general fund and could be used for any municipal
governmental purpose. Municipal governmental purposes encompass
street paving, traffic congestion relief, police protection, fire and
paramedic services, flood protection, senior citizen services, open
space preservation, and other governmental functions and services.
The City would not be bound to use these tax monies for any special
purpose or for any particular projects, facilities or programs.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7290
authorizes the City of San Luis Obispo to levy a transactions and use
tax (sales tax) at a 0.5 percent (1/2-cent) rate so long as the tax is
approved by two-thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters
voting in an election on that issue. The City Council unanimously
approved this tax on August 1, 2006. If approved by the voters, the
Measure Y-06 sales tax would become effective on April 1,2007.

This 1/2-cent sales tax would be paid in addition to current
sales taxes. The current sales tax within the City (including state and
local sales taxes) is 7.25 percent. If Measure Y-06 is approved by the
voters, the total sales tax would be 7.75 percent. This 1/2-cent sales tax
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
existing sales taxes.

Measure Y-06 contains the following fiscal accountability
provisions to assist citizens in assessing if the additional sales tax
revenues have been used in meeting community priorities: 1) the
amount generated by the new revenue source and how it was used
shall be included in the annual audit of the City’s financial operations by
an independent certified public accountant; 2) the estimated revenue
and proposed use of funds generated by this measure shall be a part of
the City’s budget and goal setting process, which provides for
participation by citizens in determining priority uses of these funds; 3)
an annual written report will be provided to every household in the City
explaining how much revenue is being generated by the measure and
how funds are being spent; and 4) a citizen oversight meeting will be
scheduled annually to allow for review and discussion of the use of
revenue generated by this measure.

The 1/2 cent sales tax would sunset and be repealed in eight
years, and could not be collected after that time unless a majority of the
voters voting in an election on that issue approves an extension or reauthorization of the tax.

<impartialend>