<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

The City of Richmond currently requires all businesses in the City to obtain a business license and pay a business license fee, which is tax for general revenue. Most businesses are now taxed based on the number of employees. Most current business licenses run for 12 months from the date of issue but some businesses may obtain licenses for shorter periods.

This Measure, if approved, would result in a 10% increase in the business license tax for most categories of business, and a change to the method of taxation for manufacturing businesses (including oil refining) and for landlords (including both residential and commercial properties). Taxes for movie theatres and child care centers would not increase. All annual licenses would be for a calendar year starting January 1, 2007. Licenses issued in 2006 would expire December 31, 2006 and a credit would be given for the remaining term of the old license. New businesses would receive up to an 18-month exemption.

Manufacturing business would be taxed under a new formula, which would be the greater of (1) the tax that would be paid by other general businesses (the prior method with a 10% increase) or (2) a flat fee of $282.70 plus one eighth of one percent (0.125%) of the value of the raw materials used in the manufacturing process. For example, a manufacturing business which has 50 employees would pay the greater of $2,908.95 or the sum of $282.70 plus 0.125% of the value of the raw materials it used. It therefore would have to use more than $2,101,000 in raw materials before its tax would be increased over the general rate. Only raw materials actually used in the manufacturing process are counted for purposes of calculating the tax. Any materials merely owned, stored in inventory, warehoused or transported are not included in the calculation. Because the tax must be paid at the beginning of each year, the calculation for each tax year is based on the total value of raw materials used in the prior year. The proposed measure contains definitions of manufacturing, raw materials and a method of valuation in order to implement this new approach.
The current system of taxing landlords based on the number of sites and employees would be replaced. Under the new system, residential landlords would pay $90 for the first 25 units, $75 per unit for the next 35 units and $55 per unit for units over 60. Non-residential landlords would pay three cents per leasable square foot of space. Residential landlords with less than three units would pay less under the new system than under the current system.

Other changes include the elimination of separate categories for part-time businesses and junkyards, an increase in the tax for live entertainment events to $1 per ticket, and a change in the annual inflation adjustment to the consumer price index.

The City estimates this measure will generate about $ 8,501,000 in new revenue beginning in 2007, of which about $ 8,000,000 will come from oil refining.

<impartialend>