<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE CLEAN BEACHES AND OCEAN PARCEL TAX ACT

This measure would amend the Municipal Code by adopting an ordinance entitled the “Clean Beaches and Ocean
Parcel Tax Act” to raise revenue solely for the purpose of implementing and financing a portion of the City’s Watershed
Management Plan (“Plan”). The Plan proposes urban runoff management and pollution prevention activities to protect
Santa Monica Bay, beaches and ocean resources and to satisfy federal, state and regional pollution discharge and water
quality requirements. The special tax would fund operation, administration, maintenance, improvement, environmental
restoration, upgrades and replacement of the existing and future storm drainage system. It would also fund on-site
stormwater management systems, storm drain conveyance system upgrades, and multipurpose capital improvement
projects for the purpose of reducing urban flooding and runoff pollution, and increasing water reuse and conservation,
recreational opportunities and open space, wildlife and marine habitat.

The measure would supplement a stormwater parcel fee adopted by the City in 1995, which has never been increased.
The current fee covers costs of the existing storm drainage system, but is insufficient to fund the Watershed Management
Plan.

The proposed ordinance establishes an annual parcel tax of $84.00 ($7.00 per month) for each parcel with one single
family detached residence. Rates for multi-family and commercial properties would vary depending upon parcel
size and a “runoff factor” representing the amount of average storm drainage from a parcel for a particular land use
category. The runoff factors and the formula to compute the parcel tax for multi-family, commercial and other property
types are specified in the Ordinance. The rates are subject to annual increases based on the annual percent increase
in a Consumer Price Index.

Tax proceeds would be deposited in a special fund that would be the subject of an annual report showing the amount
of the tax collected and expended and the status of any projects funded with tax proceeds. The City Council would
be required to establish a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to audit use of tax proceeds.

Public agencies would be exempt from this special tax; qualifying non-profit institutions could seek exemptions. The
City Council could also establish special exemption procedures and eligibility criteria for natural persons based on
income, age or disability.

It is estimated that the parcel tax rate would raise annual revenues of approximately $2,350,000 to cover stormwater
operations and maintenance costs as well as fund up to $40 million in capital projects over the next ten years. It is
anticipated that Santa Monica would be able to use its local funding to leverage access to additional capital funds from
federal, state and other funding sources for Plan implementation.

<impartialend>