<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M
Prepared by Manteca City Attorney

Measure M would raise revenue to pay for improved police,
fire and paramedic services in the City Manteca by
authorizing a one-half, percent transaction and use tax
(commonly referred to as a “sales tax”) within the City. The
one-half percent tax would be paid in addition to current sales
taxes. The new revenue measure, has been approved by the
City Council; if approved by two-thirds of the voters, the tax
would go into effect April 1, 2007.

Current State law permits cities to adopt additional sales and
use taxes for special purposes. Measure M requires that the
revenue raised be used only for the special purpose of “Public
Safety Services” as defined in the Expenditure Plan.that is a
part of Measure M. Generally, “Public Safety Services,” for
which Measure M funds could be spent by the City, include
(a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and
benefits of police protection personnel, and such other police
protection service expenses as are deemed necessary lay the
City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City; (b)
obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and
benefits of fire protection personnel, and such other fire
protection service expenses, including capital expenses, as
are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of
the residents of the City. No revenues collected pursuant to
Measure M may be spent on department administrators’
salaries, General Fund operating expenses in effect at the
time the Measure becomes effective, or projects not a part of
the Public Safety Measure Police and Fire Expenditure Plan.
The City Council may amend the Expenditure Plan, in a .public
•process, from time to time.

Measure M specifies that it is the intent of the voters that new
revenues collected shall supplement, rather than supplant,
existing City expenditures for Public Safety. This means that
Measure M funds must be spent in addition to funds the City
of Manteca already spends on public safety.

Measure M requires the City Council to appoint an
independent Citizens Oversight Committee of five Manteca
residents to monitor the expenditure of Measure M revenues
and report to the People and the City Council. Members of
the Oversight Committee cannot have conflicts of interest or
benefit financially from Measure M revenues. The Measure
also requires the City’s independent auditors to complete and
submit for public review an annual audit report. The audit
report must review whether the sales tax revenues collected
by the City are collected, managed and expended in
accordance With the requirements of applicable law.

A "Yes” vote on Measure M favors imposing the sales and
use tax for Public Safety Services. A “No” vote opposes it.

<impartialend>
