<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Measure K, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize the collection
of a utility users tax in the City of Menlo Park. The tax would be imposed
at the rate of not to exceed two and one-half percent (2.5%) on
communications services (such as telecommunications and video services)
that are primarily used within the City’s boundaries and not to exceed three
and one-half percent (3.5%) on the use of electricity, natural gas and water
supplied to service users within the City. The City Council has authority to
reduce the tax rate(s) or to eliminate the tax at any time by a simple
majority vote of the Council.

The utility users tax is a general tax intended to alleviate an ongoing
general operating budget deficit. All revenue generated by the tax would
go to the City’s general fund to provide general city services including,
police, emergency preparedness, street and storm drain maintenance,
libraries, youth and senior services. It is estimated that the tax will
generate approximately $2.5 million per year, which represents
approximately 7.7% of the City’s general operating budget.

Several exemptions to the tax are expressly provided. Low income
electricity and gas users who qualify for the California Alternate Rates for
Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to the California Public Utilities Code
are exempt from the tax on gas and electricity usage. Electricity produced
for self-use by solar electricity generation or co-generation is exempt for
six years (which may be extended). The tax would not be levied against
entities exempt by law, including federal and state agencies and public
schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and service
charges, and would be collected by the utility service provider. The
maximum annual cumulative tax payable by any service user for
electricity, gas and water pursuant to this measure would be $12,000.00 per
fiscal year. A service user with more than one meter or billing invoice per
utility service at a single contiguous location may combine all billings for
purposes of calculating the maximum tax amount.

The levy of the utility users tax is subject to review by the City Council not
later than June 30, 2008, and every two years thereafter. If the Council fails
to make findings by a two thirds vote that such tax is necessary for the
financial health of the City, the levy of the tax will terminate on December
31st of the year in which the Council fails to make the required findings.

A “Yes” vote means the voter is in favor of authorizing the City to collect
a utility users tax. A “No” vote means the voter is not in favor of the City
collecting a utility users tax. In order for the City to collect a utility users
tax, the ballot measure must be approved by more than fifty percent (50%)
of the voters voting on the measure.

<impartialend>