<impartial>

IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS	

MEASURE U

The proposed measure creates a new tax in the City, which would be
paid only by individuals renting hotel or motel rooms on a temporary basis
within the City. The amount of the tax would be ten percent of the rental
charge for every room rented. The tax would be similar to the same type of
tax existing in neighboring cities.

The tax would impose new duties on hotel and motel operators to collect
the tax and to keep certain records regarding renting of rooms and receipt of
the tax. The tax would also impose new penalties on operators or hotel and
mote! guests who fail to pay, collect or submit the tax. The City is permitted
to inspect operator records relating to the tax, and may audit operators
regarding their receipt of tax money, quarterly reports to the City and the
taxes collected for the City. Penalties may include the operator paying for
City audits; the City collecting, as a civil debt, any tax amounts owed by
operators or guests; a ten percent penalty added to any amounts not timely
paid; an.additional ten percent penalty for failure to pay the tax for more than
1 thirty days; an additional twenty-five percent penalty for a fraudulent failure
to pay the tax; and an interest penalty for each month the tax is not timely
paid.

Operators would collect the tax at the time of the rental of rooms and give
the tax money to the City monthly. The tax will be deposited into the City’s
General Fund and would be used for general governmental expenses,
including public safety, transportation, parks and other general services.

Federal and foreign government employees are exempt from the tax.
The City's Finance Director may adopt regulations for administration of the
tax.

All operators are required to register with the City and post a registration
certificate. Operators are entitled to a hearing as to any City decision
regarding compliance with tax requirements. All refunds must be made by a
claim pursuant to Chapter 1.22 of the La Habra Municipal Code, prior to any
legal action being filed against the City as to any refund. Any taxes interest
or penalties not paid under protest may not be challenged or appealed.

A "yes” vote on this proposed measure would allow the City Council to
enact a new tax to be paid by guests at hotels and motels within the City, at
the rate of ten percent on every room rented. The rate of the tax may not be
increased except by a vote of the people. Residents of the City would not be
required to pay the tax unless renting a hotel or motel room within the City.

A "no” vote on this proposed measure would prevent the City Council
from enacting a new tax on guests at hotels and motels within the City. A
"no” vote would not affect any occupancy tax guests of hotels and motels in
other cities may be required to pay to those cities.

<impartialend>

