<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TOWN ATTORNEY
OF MEASURE S

California law provides that a city may levy a Transactions and
Use Tax on retail transactions for general purposes if the ordinance
imposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members
of the city council and the tax is approved by a majority vote of the
qualified voters of the city voting in an election on the issue.

The Town of Mammoth Lakes ("Town”) is a general law city
empowered by state law to impose a Transactions and Use Tax. The
Town Council approved the ordinance proposing to impose a
Transactions and Use Tax by more than a two-thirds vote of all of
its members, and has voted to place the issue before the voters.

The proposed Transactions and Use Tax would be imposed upon
retail transactions pursuant to Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9
of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxations Code at the
rate of one-half of one-percent (0.5%). The ordinance imposing the
tax incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as the provisions are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The tax
will be administered by the California State Board of Equalization which
will impose a small administrative fee to cover the costs of its services.

If Measure "S” passes, a Transactions and Use Tax of one-half
of one percent (0.5%) will be imposed on retail transactions. Revenue
generated by the Transactions and Use Tax will be placed in the
general fund and will be used for general governmental purposes.

If Measure "S” fails, the proposed Transactions and Use Tax will
not be imposed.

A "Yes” vote is a vote to impose a Transactions and Use Tax at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) on retail transactions.
Revenue resulting from this tax will be placed in the general fund and
will be used for both existing and future Town programs and services.

A “No” vote is a vote not to impose such Transactions and Use
Tax upon retail transactions. If Measure “S” fails the revenue which
would otherwise have been generated will not be available for either
existing or future Town programs or services.

<impartialend>