

Impartial Analysis from Albany City Attorney
The City has identified $8.3 million in existing street paving and road rehabilitation project needs. The revenue generated from this parcel tax would allow the City to commence to pave City streets and make needed repairs for which there is no other funding source. Street paving projects funded by existing funds will soon be exhausted. Once these funds have been used, the City would have to find other revenue sources. The revenues generated from this parcel tax would provide a source of funds that would allow the City to proceed with needed street improvements that are not covered by currently available revenues.
 The City has also identified $4.5 million in short-term storm drain facility repair and improvement needs to reduce existing and potential flood areas. Existing revenues are insufficient to allow the City to make necessary storm drain capital improvements. The activities that would be funded would include reducing flood hazards, thereby reducing potential flood damage to individuals and the City's potential liability.
 Albany raises limited revenues for storm drain maintenance from a Storm Drain Clean Water fee that commenced in 1994. The Clean Water fee is used to implement a "Storm Water Management Plan" and to reduce pollution as required by the federal Clean Water Act and the Alameda County Urban Runoff Clean Water Program. The funds are used for maintenance of storm inlets, street sweeping, related maintenance tasks and for minor capital improvements, but are insufficient for significant capital improvements.
 The special tax would impose a tax of $96.00 per year for a single-family unit. The tax formula establishes an Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU), so that multiple units of four or more and condominiums would be taxed at 75% of the single family home (ERU) rate. Every 3,000 square feet of commercial or industrial property would be taxed as an ERU. The ordinance contains a cost of living adjustment based on the CPI, up to a maximum of 5% per year. The ordinance sets forth the manner of collection and increases the appropriations limit required by the State constitution to fund the tax. The ordinance also provides for a low-income homeowner exemption.
 