<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

On August 14, 1948, the Board of Aldermen adopted an ordinance setting an election that, among other things, asked Watsonville voters whether the City Charter should be amended to allow the Board of Aldermen to establish a retirement system for City employees.

On January 10, 1949, Watsonville voters voted to change the City Charter by setting up a City employee retirement system.

On September 6, 1949, the Board of Aldermen, pursuant to the January 10, 1949, Charter amendment levied its first retirement tax. They directed that retirement tax proceeds would be deposited into the City's General Fund. Beginning July 1, 1950, the Board of Aldermen annually levied a real estate property tax. This continued until the voters adopted a new Charter in February 1960.

Watsonville voters adopted a new Charter by election on February 16, 1960. Section 1006 of the 1960 Charter renewed and required the City's participation in the State Employees' Retirement System and prohibited the City from ending the City retirement system without voter approval. Subdivision (b) of Section 1122 of the 1960 Charter again required that the City annually levy and collect a real estate property tax adequate to pay the City's obligations to the City employee retirement system for that year. Beginning July 1, 1960, the City Council has annually levied a real estate property tax. The retirement provisions in the 1960 Charter have remained the same since 1960.

The money received from the retirement tax is collected and placed into the City's general bank account called the General Fund. The City then pays the City employees' retirement obligations for that year.

This measure, if approved by more than 50% of those voting on it, would repeal subdivision (b) of Section 1122 of the 1960 Charter and prohibit the City from collecting a retirement tax on real estate inside the City to pay the retirement obligation. No real estate property tax would be collected to pay the City's retirement obligations. Instead, the City would pay its retirement obligations from general operating funds. This would reduce the amount of money available to pay for general government services, dollar for dollar. Because no replacement for the retirement tax is proposed, the City would have to find a way to increase revenues or reduce expenses to the General Fund, dollar for dollar to balance the City budget. The common revenue sources are taxes and fees. The expenses to the General Fund are primarily the personnel of the various City departments which in alphabetical order are: City Attorney, City Clerk, City Manager, Community Development (Building and Planning), Fire Department, Finance Department, Library, Parks and Recreation, Personnel, Police and Public Works.

<impartialend>