IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

At least three new condominium hotel projects are planned within the
City of Indian Wells. Condominium hotels are hotels which contain units
which are individually and separately owned by persons or entities other
than the hotel operator. Unit owners or their personal guests are
permitted to occupy their units for up to a certain number of days each
calendar year, beyond which unit owners are generally required to pay
"in lieu" taxes, as described below.

Measure “P” would impose the City's current transient occupancy tax
(9.25%) upon occupants of condominium hotel units. There would be an
exemption for use of the condominium hotel unit by unit owners or their
persona! guests for a maximum number of days per calendar year.

Measure “P” would also establish a new "in lieu” tax (in lieu of transient
occupancy tax), up to a maximum amount of $25 per day of occupancy of
a condominium hotel unit by unit owners or their guests for each day
beyond the maximum number of days allowed for such personal use
within a calendar year. The maximum amount of such "in lieu” tax would
automatically be increased annually by the increase in the cost of living
index. Notwithstanding this maximum amount, the City Council may
actually impose a lesser tax amount from time to time.

Measure “P" would also establish a new amenity fee tax upon each
condominium hotel unit, up to a maximum of $2,400 per year. The
maximum amount of the amenity fee tax would automatically be
increased annually by the increase in the cost of living index. Notwithstanding this maximum amount, the City Council may actually impose a
lesser tax amount from time to time.

The transient occupancy tax. the "in lieu" tax and the "amenity fee tax for
new condominium hotel units would be collected and used by the City to
provide general municipal services to the City's residents and
businesses. The proposed taxes would, at least in part, make up any
loss of transient occupancy taxes which would otherwise be collected by
the City from condominium hotel units.

The foregoing taxes that would be established by Measure "P" would be
imposed only on new condominium hotel projects in the City. The taxes
would not be applicable to any existing home, apartment unit, hotel unit
or other residence that now exists. These taxes would only be applicable
to new projects which are specifically developed as condominium hotel
units (not other hotels).

A "Yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the City of Indian Wells to
establish these new taxes on new condominium hotel units.

A No" vote is a vote not to authorize the City of Indian Wells to establish
these new taxes on new condominium hotel units.