<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE U
UTILITY USERS TAX
CITY OF EUREKA

Measure U, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize the
continuation of the collection of a utility user tax in the City of Eureka.
The tax would be imposed at the rate of three percent (3%) of the
usage of the following utility services:

(1)	Communication services that are primarily used within the
City’s boundaries;

(2)	Electrical energy services supplied by an electric corporation
or non-utility supplier and used within the City’s boundaries;
and

(3)	Gas services supplied by a gas corporation or non-utility
supplier which is transported either through pipes or by mobile
transport and used within the City’s boundaries.

Several exemptions to the tax are expressly provided upon
adequate proof to the Tax Administrator. First, persons who receive
Low Income Rate Assistance (“LIRA”) from a gas or electrical
corporation would be exempt from the tax on gas or electrical utility
usage. Second, persons who receive “Universal Lifeline Service”
from a telephone corporation would be exempt from paying the tax
on basic telephone services. In addition, the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt additional classes of persons or
utilities. Finally, the tax would not be levied against persons or entities
exempt by law including federal and state agencies and public
schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider.
The maximum cumulative tax payable by any service user pursuant
to this measure would be $2,000.00 per fiscal year. A service user
with more than one meter or billing invoice per utility service at a
single contiguous location may combine all billings for purposes of
calculating the maximum tax amount.

The utility users tax is a general tax. All revenue generated by
the tax would go to the City’s general fund to provide essential
governmental services including, but not limited to: police, fire,
environmental programs, public works, parks and recreation, job
retention and expansion efforts, and other essential government
services. It is estimated that the tax will generate approximately
$1,400,000.00 of the City’s general fund budget of $21,000,000.00
for fiscal year 2006-2007. The tax as proposed in Measure U is
similar to the present utility users tax, approved by the voters in
2002. The principal difference is that the maximum taxation limit for
each service user is $2,000.00 instead of $1,000.00. Voter approval
of this Measure would amend the City’s present utility users tax by
extending it to June 30, 2011. This measure must be approved by
a majority of the voters.

<impartialend>