

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

MEASURE "P6"

Ventura Gang Prevention, 9-1-1 Emergency Public Safety Improvement
Measure

Pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of California, the
following is the City Attorney’s impartial analysis of Measure P 6:

The Ventura Gang Prevention, 9-1-1 Emergency/Public Safety Improvement
Measure (the "Measure") proposes to raise revenue for funding police, fire and
public safety facilities, equipment and personnel, by authorizing a special
transactions and use tax (i.e., "sales tax") of one-quarter of one percent (.25
percent), and approving an ordinance adding Chapter 4.192 to Division 4 of the
City’s Municipal Code. The one-quarter percent sales tax would be paid in
addition to the current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes the City to
levy or increase a sales tax at a rate of .25 percent or multiple thereof, for
specific purposes as set forth by the City, if the ordinance proposing the tax is
approved by at least two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an
election on that question. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will become
operative no sooner than April 1,2007. A "sunset" clause in the ordinance
specifies that it will be in effect for ten years, after which it will expire unless
extended by the voters.

The Measure requires that revenue from the sales tax increase be deposited in a
separate "Public Safety Tax Fund" (the "Fund"). Expenditures from the Fund are
restricted by a number of provisions in the ordinance and are to be allocated as
shown in the Police and Fire Department "Expenditure Plans" attached to the
ordinance. The Expenditure Plans are schedules of how revenue would be
allocated among various departmental budget items for fiscal years 2006-2007
through 2009-2010. The Expenditure Plans may be modified by the City Council
from time to time as long the moneys are used solely for police and fire
protection but the restrictions listed in the ordinance can only be amended by the
voters.

The Measure also requires that a citizens’ oversight committee be appointed to
independently review the appropriations from the Fund and the annual audit of
the Fund for compliance with the ordinance and prepare an annual public report
of its findings.

Generally, the revenue raised from the sales tax increase must be used to hire
and equip additional police officers and firefighters, but may not be used for
enhancing salaries or benefits of current safety services staff, or for increasing
staff salaries to levels higher than similar cities pay for similar safety services.
Sixty percent (60%) of the revenue would be designated for police officers and
police department programs while forty percent (40%) would be designated for
Fire department personnel and programs. The increased sales tax revenue is to
provide for maintaining and expanding patrol and gang prevention activities,
purchasing additional public safety equipment, and improving medical and other
emergency response time. A portion of the revenue designated for each department may be used for safety-related education and prevention programs and to
establish a reserve for the replacement or upgrade of departmental facilities.

