<impartialend>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE V

In 1910 the City of Blue Lake adopted its first business license
ordinance regulating business and establishing a business license
tax for general revenue purposes. The categories of businesses
regulated and the amount of the tax were revised by ordinance ten
times between 1910 and 1989, when Ordinance No. 396 was adopted
establishing the current categories and rates for business licenses.

On November 5,1996, the California voters adopted Proposition
218, which prohibits the City Council from raising general revenue
taxes without the approval of a majority of the electorate voting at
an election at which the question is submitted. Business license
fees are used for general revenue purposes and are subject to
Proposition 218.

The City Council has proposed the adoption of Ordinance No. 483,
which would revise the categories of business licenses and increase
the business license rates in an amount roughly equivalent to the
increase in the Consumer Price Index since the current rates were
established in 1989. Resolution No. 845 calls for an election to submit
to the voters the question of the approval of Ordinance No. 483.

Ordinance No. 483 increases the minimum annual general
business license fee from $30.00 to $50.00. For specific changes
to other categories of business license and rates, voters are referred
to the text of Ordinance No. 483. Charitable and non-profit
organizations are exempt from paying a business license tax.

If a majority of those voting vote “Yes” on the question, then the
City Council may adopt Ordinance No. 483 updating the rates for
business licenses within the City of Blue Lake. The new rates would
be applicable beginning with the first calendar year following the
effective date of the ordinance. If a majority of those voting vote
“No”, the City Council will not adopt Ordinance No. 483, and the
categories of business licenses and the business license rates will
remain the same as established in 1989 by Ordinance No. 396.

<impartialend>