<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Measure G asks the voters whether the City of Fowler should continue to collect a
Utility User’s Tax upon customers of electricity, gas, and telephone service within the City of Fowler. In 1999 the voters approved a Utility Users Tax for a period of three (3) years, until January 1, 2003. In 2002 the voters extended the Utility Users Tax for an additional four (4) years, until January 1,2007. The tax is as follows:

•	Five percent (5%) upon residential customers of electricity and gas based
upon monthly charges for the electricity and gas service.

•	Three percent (3%) upon commercial, industrial, and agricultural customers
of electricity and gas based upon monthly charges for the electricity and gas
service.

•	Five percent (5%) upon all customers of telephones based upon the monthly
base service rate for the local telephone service. The telephone tax will not
be imposed upon other services provided by the service provider, such as
long distance and wireless services.

Measure G asks the voters if this tax should be continued indefinitely without an
automatic sunset (termination). Measure G must be approved by a majority of the
voters. If approved, the tax will continue in effect indefinitely. The City Council may elect to terminate the tax at any time.

The tax will be implemented through Ordinance No. 99-6 previously approved by the
City Council on July 20, 1999, as amended by Ordinance No. 2006-04 approved by
the City Council on July 18, 2006. The tax will continue to be collected by the service provider. For telephone service, if the monthly base service rate drops below the
minimum rate charged by the City’s primary supplier of telephone communication
services (GTE) at the time of adoption of the Utility Users Tax in 1999, the monthly
base service rate upon which the tax is calculated will be the monthly base service
rate charged by GTE in 1999.

The Utility Users Tax is a general tax to be used for general governmental purposes of
the City of Fowler. The proceeds of the tax will continue to be placed in the City’s
general fund and may be used for the current expenses of the City as determined by
the City Council in making budgetary decisions. The City would not be legally bound
in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular program
or service.

<impartialend>