<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

Measure A approves the City’s existing transient
occupancy tax (TOT) rate of 10%. The TOT is a tax paid
by persons who stay at Norwalk hotels and motels. The
tax is not levied on Norwalk residents unless they stay in
a motel or hotel in the City.

If Measure A is not approved, the tax will be
reduced to 6%. Under current law, the City will not be
permitted to raise the tax beyond 10% without a vote of
the people if Measure A is approved.

The revenues from the TOT are not designated
for any specific purpose, and are used for general City
functions such as police protection, recreation services,
graffiti removal, and street and park maintenance and
repairs.

The amount of the tax included in Measure A
generates approximately $340,000 per year to pay for
City services. The City would be required to lower the
City budget by this amount if Measure A is defeated
unless new sources of equivalent revenue to the City can
be found. These reductions could adversely impact the
services listed above.

The City lawfully adopted an ordinance raising the
TOT in 1989 based on the case law existing at that time.
Subsequently, the California Supreme Court overruled
these prior cases. Even later, the California Supreme
Court held that the new decision was retroactive. In
response to those cases, a City resident, represented by
the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, filed a claim
contending the increase authorized in 1989 was not
valid.

Instead of expending City funds to litigate this
issue, the City voluntarily agreed to submit the TOT rate
increase to the voters, and the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association indicated that it would take a neutral position
on the TOT and would neither support nor oppose it.

A “Yes” vote on Measure A will continue the City’s
existing 10% TOT rate that has been in effect for more
than 10 years. A “No” vote would reduce the TOT to 6%
and reduce the City’s annual budget by approximately
$340,000 unless new sources of equivalent revenue can
be found.

<impartialend>