<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE D

The City Of Yreka Submits to the Voters for Approval An
Amendment of The Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance To
Extend Application Of The Transient Occupancy Tax To Include
Recreational Vehicle Parks And Other Recreational Facilities

The transient occupancy tax is a general tax, not a special tax
or ad valorem tax. Measure “D” would extend the tax to facilities
which do not collect the transient occupancy tax. As a general tax,
Measure “D” requires a majority vote of those voting on the measure.
Measure “D” does not increase the amount of the tax, which is 10%.

Recreational vehicle parks and other recreational facilities are
not currently subject to this tax. Measure “D” would modify the
Yreka Municipal Code to add campgrounds and recreational vehicle
parks to this tax. Measure “D” would expand the definition of hotel
to include bed and breakfast inns and residential vacation rentals;
define the terms campgrounds, recreational vehicles, recreational
vehicle parks, bed and breakfast inns, residential vacation rentals;
and, clarify the definition of rent to include space in any campground,
recreational vehicle park, or for occupancy of any room or portion
thereof in a hotel. These facilities provide transient or temporary
housing for travelers.

Revenue from taxing these facilities would go to the general fund
of the City of Yreka to be used for general governmental purposes,
such as fire, police, recreation, parks, and local access television,
which are services often used by travelers. The tax would be collected
from persons occupying the facilities for 30 consecutive days or less.
It cannot be predicted what amount of revenue might be generated
by Measure “D” as there are a limited number of facilities in the City
which meet the criteria proposed by Measure “D". The potential for
revenue from this tax may arise upon future development in the City
of facilities of this type. Currently, temporary users of these facilities
do not pay the tax. Measure “D” provides a means to collect tax
from facilities which have been exempt thus far and provides equal
treatment of all travelers within the City.

If the proposed general tax receives majority approval by the
voters voting on the measure, the tax would become effective,
following City Council certification of the results of the election, on
a date 30 days after adoption of the enabling ordinance. The proposed
general tax is not limited to any time period. If approved by a
majority of the voters voting on the measure, the tax would remain
in effect until later amended.

A “Yes” vote favors passage of this general tax, while a “No” vote
is against passage of this general tax.

<impartialend>