<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Measure P, otherwise known as the El Monte Public Safety Funding Act of 2006,
is submitted by the City of El Monte to propose a special tax to fund and
maintain essential Public Safety Services in the City of El Monte. The Measure
has been put forward to address anticipated budget shortfalls which will likely
result in the scaling back of essential public safety services such as police, fire and
emergency medical response services as well as reductions in staff and resources
needed to enforce City code provisions.

How will Measure P revenues be used?

By law, Measure P revenues may only be used to fund those activities and
purposes listed under the Measure, namely.

-	Police patrols for streets and parks;

-	Police equipment and training;

-	Wages, salaries and benefits for police officers and other support staff;

-	Fire protection services and equipment;

-	Emergency medical response services (including paramedic services);

-	Emergency medical response equipment and training;

-	Wages, salaries and benefit for fire protection or emergency medical response
personnel;

-	Crossing guards; and

-	Code enforcement personnel and equipment.

Who is exempt from the tax?

Owner-occupied residential dwelling units are exempt from paying the tax if the
owner-occupant:

-	Is 75 years of age or older; or

-	Is a “disabled veteran” under Section 295.7 of the California Vehicle Code;
or

-	Has a household income that qualifies as low or very low income as defined
under the Measure.

Also exempt are churches, schools, government agencies and other institutions
exempt pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 214.

When does the tax expire?

The special tax will terminate after the close of the 2012-2013 fiscal year.

How will the tax be assessed?

Owners of residential properties will pay $120 per year for each “residential
dwelling unit” contained within their residential property, For example, a single
family home represents one “residential dwelling unit.” Accordingly, the tax
imposed upon the owner of that home would be $120 per year. Alternatively, an
eight-unit apartment complex will constitute eight “residential dwelling units,”
meaning the owner of the complex will pay $120 per year for each of the eight
units or $960 per year total.

Owners of non-residential property will pay $132 per parcel contained within
their non-residential property plus 6 cents ($0.06) per each square foot of
building square footage. For example, if the non-residential property contains
one parcel and 1,000 square feet of building square footage, the total tax liability
will be $132 plus $60 or $192 per year. The foregoing notwithstanding, the total
annual tax imposed on a non-residential property may not exceed $15,000.

Each component of the tax rates established under the Measure may be
increased annually by the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index or 5%,
whichever is smaller.

<impartialend>