<impartial>




MEASURE P  IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PACIFIC GROVE CITY ATTORNEY  



This ballot measure is one of three linked tax proposals presented by the Pacific Grove City Council on this ballot. If approved, Measure O would increase the Business License Tax, Measure P would add a Parcel Tax, and Measure Q would increase the Uniform Sales and Use Tax within the City of Pacific Grove. A majority of voters must vote to approve each of the three separate measures (Measures O, P and Q) for any one of the taxes to be imposed. If any one measure fails to gain a majority vote, none of the tax measures shall be enacted.  The City of Pacific Grove currently does not levy a Parcel Tax. If approved, this measure shall impose an excise tax of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120) on each non-exempt parcel of real property within the City. This measure defines a parcel to be any unit of land in Pacific Grove that receives a separate tax bill from the Monterey County Assessor’s Office.  The Parcel Tax is an excise tax, not a property tax. It is based upon benefits provided by municipal services such as police, fire, recreation, planning, library, and museum programs, and from the availability of City franchises. Exemptions from the tax are available.  All property otherwise exempt from property taxes shall be exempt from the Parcel Tax. The Parcel Tax also includes an exemption for property owners who meet the City’s criteria for “lower income” which is 60% of the median income for Monterey County, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and at California Health and Safety Code Section 50079.5. For 2007, the qualifying income level ranges from $26,650 for a single-person household to $44,100 for a six-person household. Additional full or proportional exemptions from the tax shall be available upon demonstration that a parcel is not benefited by, or is only partially benefited by, available municipal services or franchises.  This measure shall authorize a general tax. The City may use this tax revenue for general functions such as police protection, fire suppression, storm water and sewer mains, street and pothole repair, park maintenance and restoration, library and museum purposes, recreation, code enforcement and other services.  The City Council authorized this measure to be placed on this ballot by unanimous vote in accord with California Constitution, Article XIII C. The Council determined a financial emergency exists and immediate and s urgent enactment of new taxes is needed to preserve the public peace, health and safety of the community, to avoid work stoppage and/or service disruptions that shall result from staff cuts and reductions in force, and to avoid impairment of values provided by the library, museum and recreation departments.  A “YES” vote shall authorize the Parcel Tax. A “NO” vote shall reject the Parcel Tax.  <impartialend>