<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Based on findings that increases in gang activity, drug trafficking, methamphetamine labs, and related criminal activity within City limits create a need for
additional police presence and that enhanced firefighting capabilities are needed to
respond to increasing calls for services from a growing population, the City Council of the City of Selma adopted Resolution No. 2007-44R, calling for a citywide municipal election on “Measure S” the “Selma Police, Fire, 9-1-1 Response and Anti-gang/Drug
Prevention Measure.” Measure S provides for a 1/2 cent sales tax increase enacted
pursuant to Ordinance No. 2007-8, approved by the City Council of the City of Selma.
The revenues generated by the tax increase must be maintained in a separate “Public
Safety Fund” and may only legally be used for the public safety purposes identified
below and in Ordinance No. 2007-8. The 1/2 cent increase in sales tax is applicable to
the same transactions as is the general state sales tax, and subject to all state
exemptions and exclusions. The effect of the measure is to enact an additional 1/2 cent
sales tax on transactions that are subject to sales tax under existing law that occur
within the boundaries of the City of Selma.

The measure and implementing ordinance require that all proceeds of the tax be
paid into a Public Safety Fund. These funds can only be spent in the City of Selma for
the purposes designated in a Public Safety Expenditure Plan which is part of the
implementing ordinance. These purposes include (a) obtaining, operating and/or
maintaining police protection equipment, paying the salaries of police protection
personnel, and such other police protection service expenses, including capital
expenditures, deemed necessary by the City Council of the City of Selma consistent
with the Public Safety Expenditure Plan; (b) obtaining, operating and/or maintaining
fire protection equipment, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection personnel, and such other fire protection service expenses, including capital expenditures,
deemed necessary by the City Council of the City of Selma consistent with the Public
Safety Expenditure Plan. The ordinance prohibits use of revenues collected under
Measure S on department administrator’s salaries, General Fund operating expenses,
or projects or expenditures of any type that are not part of the Public Safety
Expenditure Plan which identifies the anticipated revenue to be derived from the Vz
cent increase in the sales tax and planned expenditures for public safety purposes.
The ordinance establishes an Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee and
requires mandatory independent financial audits of the Public Safety Fund.

<impartialend>