

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE "C7"

Measure C7 will reduce the UUT tax rate from 5% to 4.5% for all Ventura
residents who use "land line" telephone service, cell phones and who have cable
television.

Since 1970, the City has imposed by ordinance a 5% "Telephone Tax" and 5%
"Cable Television Tax" that's paid by telephone and cable TV customers on their
bills for those services. Measure C7 would replace these 5% telephone and
cable television taxes with a 4.5% "communications users tax."

Measure C7 is intended to address potential problems with the current 1970 tax
ordinance. Like many similar utility users tax ordinances throughout California,
Ventura's current ordinance was written before the introduction of new
communications technologies, such as cellular phones and broadband service
over private networks, including voice-over-internet protocol. The telephone tax
was based, in relevant part, on many of the definitions and concepts in federal
law such as the federal excise tax (FET). Subsequent changes to federal law,
including a recent change in the IRS interpretation of the FET on long distance
service, could result in inconsistent imposition and collection of the tax among
various users and potential litigation by service providers.

Besides reducing the tax rate from 5% to 4.5%, Measure C7 eliminates
references to the FET as the basis for collection of a telephone tax and expands
the types of taxable communication services to cover the newer communications
and video technologies not covered by the current ordinances. Instead of just
functioning as a "telephone" or "cable TV" tax, Measure C7 would apply to
charges for the use of "Communication Services" which include various types of
"telecommunication services" and "video services" as defined in the Measure.

As a result, the 4.5% tax would be broader based in generally applying to all
types of communication and video services regardless of the technology used.

The Measure would not tax digital downloads such as books, music, ringtones,
games, and similar digital products. Nor would it apply to coin-operated
communication service, or Wi-Fi or other forms of Internet access. However, the
Measure is worded to allow it to apply to future communications technologies, or
to existing technologies that may become subject to local taxation. For example,
although federal law does not presently allow local taxation of direct broadcast
satellite TV service, it would be subject to the Measure, "to the extent federal law
permits ... now or in the future."

Like the current telephone and cable taxes, the communication users tax would
be collected from the "service user" (i.e., the customer) by the "service supplier"
(the entity or person that provides the communication service). Service suppliers
would have to begin collecting the communication users tax as soon as feasible
but no later than April 1, 2008. Service suppliers can collect, and service users
can pay, either the current tax or the new communication users tax during this
transition period prior to April 1,2008, to satisfy their tax obligation.

Also, as with the current telephone and cable TV taxes, the communications
users' tax would be a general tax, with its proceeds deposited into the City's
general fund. Such funds are available to the City for all of its programs.

