<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

Measure D proposes an ordinance that would repeal Ordinance No. 418,
Chapter 3.44 of the Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code, and the City’s annual
storm drain fee.

In a 2005 mail-ballot election, owners of properties that drain into the City-
owned storm drain system voted to approve an annual fee that they would pay
for a maximum period of thirty years. The amount of the fee was determined by
an engineering analysis of the amount of impervious coverage located on parcels
using the storm drain system. The purpose of the fee is to pay for the repair and
replacement of City storm drains and to pay for the cost of installing filtration
devices to keep polluted run-off from draining to the ocean. The fund generated
by the storm drain fee can be used only for these purposes. City Staff estimates
that approximately $1.2 million will be raised annually over the thirty-year life of
the storm drain fee.

The City created a Water Quality and Flood Protection Program that includes a
list of projects that are expected to be constructed over the next thirty years and
could be funded by the storm drain fee. The Program recognizes that from time
to time, the City will need to re-prioritize the projects that will be constructed.

If approved, Measure D will repeal the storm drain fee. If the storm drain fee is
repealed, the revenue that would have been raised by the fee will not be
collected, which also will eliminate the City fund that was to have been dedicated
solely to repairing and maintaining City storm drains and installing filtration
devices. If the fee is repealed, the City will lose the dedicated revenue source that
could be used as collateral to obtain long-term debt financing to pay for the
storm drain repair projects and for the installation of filtration devices.

Without the storm drain fee, the City Council will need to reallocate other City
monies, which could be used for other purposes, to pay for the costs of repairing
and replacing storm drains and installing filtration devices. At this time, neither
the availability of other City funds nor the projects that would be deferred or
eliminated from the Program can be ascertained. It also cannot be determined
whether the repeal of the storm drain fee will eliminate projects that would
preclude property damage or whether fines will be imposed against the City for
failing to satisfy water quality requirements.

To be enacted, Measure D requires approval by a majority of the City voters who
cast votes regarding this measure. Measure D is incompatible with the other
measure that is on this ballot, which would shorten the duration of the storm
drain fee and establish an oversight committee. This means that if both measures
receive approval by a majority vote, the measure with the highest number of
votes will prevail and will be adopted.

<impartialend>