<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PACIFIC GROVE CITY ATTORNEY

This ballot measure is one of three linked tax proposals presented by the
Pacific Grove City Council on this ballot. If approved, Measure O would
increase the Business License Tax, Measure P would add a Parcel Tax,
and Measure Q would increase the Uniform Sales and Use Tax within the
City of Pacific Grove. A majority of voters must vote to approve each of the
three separate measures (Measures O, P and Q) for any one of the taxes
to be imposed. If any one measure fails to gain a majority vote, none of
the tax measures shall be enacted.

Pacific Grove Municipal Code Section 7.04.220 now levies a Business
License Tax on businesses that conduct business within the City. The rate
is set at one tenth of one percent (0.1%) of annual gross receipts for that
business. The Code provides that the minimum tax is to be $15 and the
maximum tax is $3,000. This measure would remove the $3,000 tax limit
during the period starting on January 1,2008 and ending on December 31,
2013.

This measure would not change the Business License Tax rate; it would
remain at one tenth of one percent (0.1 %) of annual gross receipts. By
eliminating the $3,000 cap on the License Tax, this measure would
affect businesses having gross receipts of more than three million
dollars ($3,000,000) per year. This measure shall not have any affect on
businesses that have lesser annual gross receipts.

This measure shall authorize a general tax. The City may use this tax
revenue for general functions such as police protection, fire suppression,
storm water and sewer mains, street and pothole repair, park maintenance
and restoration, library and museum purposes, recreation, code
enforcement and other services.

The City Council authorized this measure to be placed on this ballot by
unanimous vote in accord with California Constitution, Article XIII C. The
City Council determined a financial emergency exists and immediate and
urgent enactment of new taxes is needed to preserve the public peace,
health and safety of the community, to avoid work stoppage and/or service
disruptions that shall result from staff cuts and reductions in force, and
to avoid impairment of services provided by the library, museum and
recreation departments.

A “YES" vote shall authorize the $3,000 maximum Business License
Tax limit to be deleted for six years. A “NO” vote shall retain the $3,000
maximum limit on the Business License Tax.

<impartialend>