<impartial>




MEASURE Q  IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PACIFIC GROVE CITY ATTORNEY  



This ballot measure is one of three linked tax proposals presented by the Pacific Grove City Council on this ballot. If approved, Measure O would increase the Business License Tax, Measure P would add a Parcel Tax, and Measure Q would increase the Uniform Sales and Use Tax within the City of Pacific Grove. A majority of voters must vote to approve each of the three separate measures (Measures O, P and Q) for any one of the taxes to be imposed. If any one measure fails to gain a majority vote, none of the tax measures shall be enacted.  The local Sales Tax is now set at the rate of one percent (1%) on the sale of most goods in the City. When combined with the State sales tax, the full sales tax is collected at the rate of seven and one quarter percent (7.25%) in Pacific Grove. If approved, the local Sales Tax would increase to one and one half percent (1.5%) for six years; the combined State and local sales tax would then be seven and three quarters percent (7.75%).  If approved, the additional Sales Tax proposed by this measure shall end December 31,2013. After that date, sales tax rates would return to levels authorized by State law, currently set at seven and one quarter percent (7.25%).  This measure proposes to amend Section 6.08.020 of the Pacific Grove Municipal Code. This would authorize the levy of an additional one-half percent (0.5%) Transaction and Use Tax (Sales Tax) within the City for six years. This amount would be added to and collected together with existing State and local sales taxes.  This measure shall be a general tax. California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City to increase the Sales and Use Tax for general use. The City may use this tax revenue for general functions such as police protection, fire suppression, storm water and sewer mains, street and pothole repair, park maintenance and restoration, library and museum purposes, recreation, code enforcement and other services.  The City Council authorized this measure to be placed on this ballot by unanimous vote in accord with California Constitution, Article XIII C. The Council determined a financial emergency to exist and that immediate and urgent enactment of new taxes is needed to preserve the public peace, health and safety of the community, to avoid work stoppage and/or service disruptions that shall result from staff cuts and reductions in force, and to avoid impairment of values services provided by the library, museum and recreation departments.  A “YES” vote shall authorize the one-half percent (0.5%) increase in the Sales Tax. A “NO” vote shall reject the one-half percent (0.5%) increase in the Sales Tax. 

<impartialend>