<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Measure L would raise revenue to pay for the design, construction
and furnishing of a new Monrovia Public Library to replace the
current outdated structure. The current Monrovia Public Library
building in Library Park is approximately 50-years old. The City’s
staff has reported that the current building is too small and lacks
the technology infrastructure to meet current and future needs.
The City Council has conceptually approved a floor plan and
exterior rendering for the new Monrovia Library.

If approved by 2/3 of the City’s voters, Measure L would impose a
special tax on all parcels of real property in the City. The annual
tax rates would be $62 per parcel for single-family residences,
$46 per unit for multi-family properties, $8 per space for mobile
home parks, 29 cents per square foot of building for commercial
and industrial properties and $17 per acre for vacant land. The tax
would be collected each year on the annual property tax bill.

The revenue raised by Measure L could be used only for the
design, construction and furnishing of the new Library, including
the cost of financing the project. This revenue could not be spent
for salaries or any administrative cost for the library. The law
requires that revenues from Measure L be placed in a separate
fund, subject to an independent audit each year with the results
of the audit reported to the public. The tax would be collected
only for the time necessary to repay any money the City might
borrow for the new library project or 30 years, whichever occurs
earlier, and would automatically sunset at that time.

The City Council could not extend the duration of the tax or
increase the amount of the tax without a 2/3 vote of the people.
Certain properties would be exempt from paying the tax, including
government property, property exempt from taxes under State or
federal law, and properties owned by low-income senior citizens
and disabled people who apply to the City for an exemption.

A “Yes” vote on Measure L favors imposing the parcel tax to pay
for the new Monrovia Library. A “No” vote opposes it.

<impartialend>