

City of Ceres, City Attorney Impartial Analysis

The Ceres Police, Fire, 9-1-1 Emergency Response Local Control Measure would raise
revenue to pay for improved police, fire and paramedic services in the City Ceres by
authorizing a one-half percent transaction and use tax (commonly referred to as a "sales
tax") within the City. The one-half percent tax would be paid in addition to current sales
taxes. The new revenue measure has been approved by the City Council and if approved
by two-thirds of the voters, the Measure would be effective April 1, 2008.

Current State law permits cities to adopt additional sales and use taxes for special
purposes. This Measure requires that the revenue raised be used only for the special
purpose of "Public Safety Services" as defined in the Measure and as more specifically
identified in the Expenditure Plan that is a part of this Measure. Generally, "Public Safety
Services," are defined to include (a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining
police protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police
protection personnel, and such other police protection service expenses as are deemed
necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City; (b) obtaining,
furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire protection equipment or apparatus, paying
the salaries and benefits of fire protection personnel, and such other fire protection
service expenses, as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the
residents of the City. No revenues collected pursuant to this Measure may be spent on
department administrators' salaries, General Fund operating expenses in effect at the time
the Measure becomes effective, or projects not a part of the Public Safety Expenditure
Plan. The City Council may amend the Expenditure Plan, in a public process, from time
to time.

This Measure specifies that it is the intent of the voters that the new revenues collected
shall supplement, rather than supplant, existing City expenditures for Public Safety. This
means that the funds from this Measure must be spent in addition to funds the City of
Ceres already spends on public safety.

This Measure requires Council appointment of an independent Citizens Oversight
Committee of five Ceres residents to monitor expenditure of Measure revenues and report
to the People and the City Council. Committee meetings will be noticed and open to the
public. Committee members cannot have conflicts of interest or benefit financially from
Measure revenues. The Measure also requires the City's independent auditors to complete
and submit for public review an annual audit report. The audit report must review
whether the sales tax revenues collected by the City are collected, managed and expended
in accordance with the requirements of applicable law.

A "Yes" vote on the Measure favors imposing the sales and use tax for Public Safety
Services. A "No" vote opposes it.

