<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

If approved by a majority of the voters, Measure F will authorize an
additional 1/2-cent sales tax to be levied within the City of San Bruno. This
1/2-cent sales tax would be a “general purpose tax,” meaning that the
revenue raised from the tax would go into the City’s general fund and may
be used for any municipal governmental purpose. Municipal governmental
purposes may include police and fire protection, library facilities, public
works, programs for seniors, parks and recreation services, and other
governmental functions and services. The measure does not bind the City
to use the proceeds of the tax for any particular services, facilities, or
programs.

The 1/2-cent sales tax would be levied in addition to the current sales
tax and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
existing sales tax. Currently, the sales tax in San Bruno (including state and
local taxes) is eight and one-quarter (8V4) percent. If this measure is
approved, the sales tax in San Bruno will be eight and three-quarters (83/4)
percent.

The measure contains the following fiscal accountability provisions
to help citizens evaluate whether the additional sales tax revenues are being
used to meet community priorities: 1) no later than March 18, 2008, the
City Council must appoint a citizens’ oversight committee to review the
expenditure of the revenues generated by the tax; and 2) the annual audit of
the City’s financial operations by an independent certified public
accountant shall include the amount generated by this tax and how it is
used.

State law authorizes the City of San Bruno to levy this V0-cent sales
tax (technically referred to as a transactions and use tax) following approval
by two-thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters voting in an
election on that issue. The San Bruno City Council unanimously approved
this tax on July 24, 2007. A full copy of the measure is printed in these
ballot materials.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 6, 2007
election, the Measure F l/2-cent sales tax would become operative on
April 1, 2008.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>