<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

This is a ballot measure to renew a municipal parcel tax
to supplement a portion of the funds required to maintain
the City’s library System. In special elections in 1993
and 1997, Pasadena voters approved separate measures
td create an ordinance establishing and then extending
a Library Special Tax. The purpose of the Tax is to
supplement the City’s annual General Fund expenditure
to maintain the current level of services at the Central
Library and nine branch libraries (i.e., Allendale, Hastings,
Hiil Avenue, Lamanda Park, LaPintorescap Linda Vista,
San Rafael, Santa Catalina, and Villa Parke). The current
ordinance is set to expire on June 30,2008, unless voters
authorize an extension by a two-thirds majority.

The proceeds of the Library Special Tax are used exclusively
for funding a portion of the Library’s maintenance and
operational costs. The City's current annual budget for
the Information Services Department (Library) is $11.4
million. The Library Special Tax provides $1.79 million of
that amount, approximately 16%. Both the Library Special
Tax and the City’s Genera!: Fund allocation are adjusted
annually based on the increase in the Consumer Price
index. Currently, the annual: tax rates are: $26.31 for a
single-family detached or attached unit; $17.10 for an
apartment unit; and $193.40 for nonresidential parcels.

Measure C maintains the current level of library services
and "authorizes a continuation of the existing features
of the Library Special Tax, with minor changes. These
modifications include a one-time increase to the Fiscal Year
2008 annual tax rate by $4.25 for a single-family detached
or attached unit; $3.00 for an apartment unit; and $30^00
for each non-residential parcel. This Measure would
extend the Tax to Fiscal Year 2023, a fifteen-year period.
Both the Library Special Tax and the City’s General Fund
expenditure would continue to be indexed annually based
on the Consumer Price Index. Exemptions to the Tax
are maintained for religious facilities, community service
organizations and persons meeting specific income, senior
citizen or disability criteria.

FISCAL IMPACT: It is anticipated that the passage of
Measure C will have an impact on the City’s General Fund
appropriations as it includes a requirement that the City
allocate annually no less than 80% of the total budget
appropriations for the Information Services Department
(Library) from City resources. The Library Special Tax could
not be imposed on Pasadena taxpayers if the City does
not maintain this financial commitment to the Library.

<impartialend>