<impartial>

MEASURE “D”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

At the June 2003 election, Rialto voters approved the Utility User Tax Ordinance of the
City of Rialto (“Ordinance”). The Ordinance, codified as Chapter 3.16 of the Rialto
Municipal Code, imposes an eight percent (8%) tax on charges for the use of electrical
energy, water delivered by pipe, gas delivered by pipe, telephone service, cellular
telephone service, sewer service, and cable television service (“Tax”). The Ordinance,
including the Tax, automatically expires by its own terms on June 30, 2008.

The Tax is a general tax, which means that the revenues of the Tax are deposited in
the Rialto City General Fund and may be used for any lawful City purpose, as
determined by the City Council in the annual budget. The Ordinance provides an
exemption for seniors (persons 65 years of age or older) and low income households
(as defined by state law). Persons meeting the definition of senior or low income
households do not pay the Tax, provided they complete and file the appropriate
exemption form and documentation required by the City tax administrator. The
Ordinance also establishes a process for the refund of any tax that has been overpaid,
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected.

This measure is an ordinance that extends the Ordinance, including the Tax, for an
additional five (5) year period at the same eight percent (8%) rate. If this measure is
adopted, the automatic expiration of the Ordinance and the Tax by its own terms will
be extended to June 30, 2013. In addition, this measure modifies the definition of
“telephone services” and Section 3.16.040 of the Ordinance governing the City’s
telephone users tax to clarify that the City’s telephone users tax applies to all
telephone services within the jurisdiction of the City, including services billed to a
telephone account with an address in Rialto, regardless of the type of calling plan
subscribed to and regardless of where the services originate. Finally, this measure
ratifies a similar determination previously made by the City Council regarding the
application of the City’s telephone users tax. This measure makes no other changes
to the Ordinance and, if adopted, the Tax will continue to be implemented in the same
manner as during the previous five (5) years.

<impartialend>