<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

As most recently approved by the voters in 2002, the City
of South Pasadena currently charges a utility user’s tax of
5% on the amount customers within the City pay for water,
telephone, cellular telephone, electricity, gas, and cable
television services. That tax is collected by each utility as
part of the regular utility bill. The City’s authority to charge
that tax will expire on July 31,2007. The revenue the City
receives from that tax accounts for approximately $2,221
Million Dollars (or 12.3%) of the City’s annual General Fund
revenue and is used to pay some of the costs of the City’s
ongoing normal operations.

If Measure U is approved by a simple majority of the voters
voting on the measure, then the amount of that tax (5%)
would stay the same and the term would be extended for
an additional eight (8) years through July 31, 2015. The
utility user’s tax would continue to be collected by each
utility as part of the regular utility bill. If Measure U is
approved and the City desires, in the future, to continue
to charge that tax after July 31,2015, then that extension
would also be required to be presented to the voters at
the regular municipal election (when council members are
elected) which would be held on March 3, 2015.

The measure also revises the City's municipal code to
eliminate references to the Federal Excise Tax in provisions
governing the utility user’s tax’s application to telephone
and cellular telephone services. The federal government
recently changed its longstanding interpretation of the
Federal Excise Tax, and at least one bill has been presented
in Congress to repeal it altogether. The revision in the
ordinance would ensure that the City’s application of
its utility user’s tax on telephone and cellular telephone
services would not be affected by changes in federal law..
The revisions do not affect the tax rate, nor do they affect
the scope of the tax. Adoption of this ordinance and its
revisions to the code should not have a fiscal impact
different from that of the previously approved tax.

If Measure U does not receive approval from a majority
of the voters voting on it, then the City would no longer
receive that approximately $2,221 Million Dollars of annual
General Fund revenue.

<impartialend>