<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “J”

Transient occupancy tax (“TOT") is a tax that is imposed on the
privilege of using overnight lodging facilities, such as hotels, motels and
“bed and breakfast’ businesses, and is frequently referred to as a “hotel
tax". The current transient occupancy tax rate in the City of Desert Hot
Springs is ten percent (10%) of the room rental rate. The City Council of
the City of Desert Hot Springs (“City Council”) has directed that a
measure be placed on. the November 6,2007, ballot requesting approval
of Measure “J", which, if approved, by majority of the voters at this
election, will authorize the City Council to increase the rate of TOT by two
percent (2%). The result would be a TOT rate of twelve percent (12%).

In 1964, pursuant to its authority under California Revenue and
Taxation Code sections 7280 seq., the City Council of the City of
Desert Hot Springs adopted Ordinance No.27, which provided for the
imposition and collection of a general excise tax on the privilege of using
hotel accommodations in the City', TOT to be paid by hotel users and
collected by hotel operators. In 1991 the City Council of City of Desert
Hot Springs adopted Ordinance No. 91-07 imposing City’s current TOT
of ten percent (10%) for general fund purposes to fund general services,
such as maintenance of police and fire stations, public parks and streets
in the City of Desert Hot Springs. If Measure “J” is approved' and an
increase in the rate of TOT is subsequently imposed by the City Council,
the proposed ordinance will amend Article III of Chapter 35 of the
Municipal Code. The proceeds generated from the TOT will be used for
general services in the City of Desert Hot Springs.

A “yes" vote would approve the proposed changes to the City’s TOT
rates.

A “no” vote would leave the existing TOT in place.

Because the proceeds from any increase in the TOT rate will
be used for general fund purposes, this Measure will become effective if
approved by a majority of the electorate.

<impartialend>