<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Under existing law, most operators of commercial parking facilities pay an
annual business license tax equal to eight (8) percent of their gross receipts.
In practice, the tax is built into parking prices and paid by customers.

The existing business license tax does not apply to any commercial parking
lot owner or operator that is not required to obtain a business license. For
example, other public agencies that own parking lots within South San
Francisco, such as the City and County of San Francisco or the Bay Area
Rapid Transit District, may not be required to pay the tax. As a result, long
term commercial parking is not taxed uniformly within the City.

The proposed ordinance includes a uniform structure that would authorize
the City to levy a tax directly on parking customers in the City. The tax
would be equal to eight (8) percent of the parking rate charged by the
operator of the lot. If this ordinance is approved, the City would only be
able to levy either the existing business license tax or the new commercial
parking tax, but not both.

Pursuant to the proposed ordinance, parking lot operators would collect the
tax and then pay the tax amounts collected to the City. For all customers
who use existing commercial parking facilities, there is no anticipated
impact on parking prices. The proposed ordinance exempts customers who
park at City-owned lots and customers who park at public agency lots for
less than 24 hours from payment of the parking tax. Thus, those customers
who park at public agency parking lots for more than 24 hours would be
subject to the parking tax.

A “yes” vote would authorize the City to levy the new commercial parking
tax.

A “no” vote would retain the current business license tax applied to
operators of commercial parking facilities.

Because the proceeds from the commercial parking tax will be used for
general fund purposes, this ballot measure requires a majority affirmative
(“yes”) vote for approval.

<impartialend>