IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

THE FIRE AND PARAMEDIC SERVICES
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE

This measure implements a tax. It is proposed by the
City Council under the authority of Section 4 of Article
A of the California Constitution, which permits a city
to levy a tax for specifically identified purposes, known as
a “special tax,” if approved by not less than two-thirds of
the voters. This special tax could be used only to pay the
costs of fire and paramedic services provided by the City
of Palos Verdes Estates.

Those services are currently provided by the Consolidated
Fire Protection District of Los Angeles County under
an agreement with the City. Costs incurred by the City
under that agreement are currently paid for by a special
tax approved by the voters in 2001, which expires June
30, 2007. The proposed tax begins upon expiration of
the existing tax (fiscal year 2007-2008) and lasts for ten
years, through fiscal year 2016-2017. Under the present
law, the tax could then be renewed or extended only by
another two-thirds vote of the people.

The methodology of the proposed tax is substantially
similar to the existing tax. In 2007-2008, the tax will be
determined by adding $250.41 per lot to $0.143422 for
each square foot of building improvements located on the
property. In each fiscal year from fiscal year 2008-2009
through 2011 -2012, the tax may be increased up to 4.2%,
and in each fiscal year from fiscal year 2012-2013 through
2016-2017, the tax may be increased up to 6.2%. In no
event, however, may an increase exceed the increase in
the City’s cost under the agreement with the Fire District,
if that agreement is still in effect.

The tax will be imposed on each parcel of property within
the City, other than those owned by governmental agencies
or otherwise exempt from the payment of property taxes.
The procedures for its collection are the same as for other
property taxes, including making an unpaid tax a lien on
the property. Revenue goes into a special account and
annual reports as to the amounts collected and spent
are required. If the Fire District agreement terminates or
expires, the City may use the tax revenue to provide for
an equivalent level of fire and paramedic services through
other means. The City Council is given certain authority to
change the procedures relevant to collection of the tax, but
not the amount or uses for the revenue. The measure also
provides for an adjustment in the “appropriations limit” of
the City if necessary to accommodate this income.

When the tax expires, if there is unexpended revenue from
it, that money may be used to lower the next year’s tax (if
any) or be returned to the taxpayers on the same pro rated
basis as originally levied.

