<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

Since 1989, the City of Benicia has imposed a Telephone and Video Users Tax,
which is paid by telephone and video customers on their telephone and CATV
bills. The City’s tax ordinance, like many similar tax ordinances throughout the
state, was written before the introduction of new communications technologies,
such as cellular phones and broadband service over private networks, including
voice-over-internet. The tax ordinance was also written before several changes
occurred to federal law, namely, the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act
of 2000 and the recent change in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise
tax on long distance service. Taxes imposed by other California cities that
contain language similar to that in the City’s ordinance have been the subject
of legal controversy, as some telecommunications providers and class action
plaintiffs have disagreed with the cities’ application of the tax.

Measure S supplants the existing telephone and video users tax with a modern
communications users tax, and would reduce the rate of the tax from 4% to
3.5%. The tax would be imposed on charges for the use of communication
services, including both telecommunication and video services (defined to
include “the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video,
or any other information or signals to a point, or between or among points,
whatever the technology used") and ancillary telecommunications and video
services (defined as “services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications and video services"). The
modernized definitions would apply to all intrastate, interstate and international
communications regardless of the technology used to provide such services
(e.g., broadband service), and would also apply to all video services regardless
of the technology used to provide such services (e.g., IP-TV).

The measure expands and clarifies the City’s collection procedures and the
process for appealing these tax calculations.

Like the existing telephone and video users tax, the communications users
tax would be a general tax, with its proceeds deposited into the City’s general
fund. Such funds are available to the City for all of its programs. Measure S
would provide for an annual verification by third party auditors that the tax has
been properly collected and that all revenues have been properly expended.

This measure does not amend the gas or electricity users tax.

<impartialend>