<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

Measure C proposes to raise revenue to be used for road and
drain reconstruction and maintenance to all public streets by authorizing
a thirty year parcel tax on all taxable property within the City.

If approved, Measure C would assess a flat rate parcel tax on all
taxable properties within the City not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars
($150) per year per single family residential unit. The tax formula
establishes an Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) for properties based
upon the density of the land use for multi-family parcels and the size of
the improvement for commercial parcels. All parcels will be taxed at a
rate not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150) multiplied by the ERU.
The parcel tax will be collected annually, commencing on July 1, 2007,
and will automatically terminate thirty years thereafter.

The proceeds from the Measure will be deposited into a special
account separate from the City’s General Fund and will be spent solely
for road and drain reconstruction and maintenance to public streets. The
Capital Projects Assessment Committee will be responsible for reviewing
semi-annually the expenditures of funds collected from the parcel tax to
determine whether the funds were spent in furtherance of Measure C.
An independent auditor shall also prepare an annual report for the City
Council indicating the amount of the parcel tax received and expended in
each year and the status of any project or description of any programs
funded from proceeds of the parcel tax.

The City Council adopted a resolution on March 12, 2007 calling
this election and submitting this Measure to a vote of the electors of the
City. Two-thirds of those voting on the Measure must approve the
Measure for it to pass. A “Yes” vote on Measure C is a vote to authorize
the City to assess the parcel tax for road and drain reconstruction and
maintenance to public streets. A “No” vote on Measure C is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax for road and drain reconstruction and
maintenance to public streets.


<impartialend>