<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

For many years, the City of South San Francisco (“City”) has required that
businesses operating within the City obtain a business license and pay a tax
for that license. The purpose of this program is to raise revenue for the
services that the City provides to businesses and residents including street
and park maintenance, library, police and fire services.

The tax rate varies based on the type of business, and the exact amount of
tax that any particular business pays depends upon its operations. For
example, the tax for most businesses currently is $75 plus $5 per employee.
The rate for some other businesses is a percentage of their annual gross
receipts. The City’s current business license tax rates are set forth in full in
Chapter 6.16 of the South San Francisco Municipal Code. For the most
part, these rates are at the same level as they were in 1976.

If approved by the voters, the proposed ordinance would amend Chapter
6.16 of the Municipal Code to increase the City’s business license tax rates
for all businesses subject to the business license tax, except those whose tax
is based on a percentage of gross receipts. The base rate paid by most
businesses would increase to $75 plus $15 per employee. The proposed
ordinance also imposes a limit on the amount of tax that may be charged.

This proposed ordinance also provides that, except for tax rates based on a
business’s gross receipts, the business license tax rates will be adjusted
annually by an amount equal to the percentage increase in the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) for All Urban Consumers for the San Francisco -
Oakland - San Jose metropolitan area.

These increased rates would be effective upon approval of this measure, but
would not be implemented until January 1, 2009.

A “yes” vote would approve the proposed changes to the City’s business
license tax rates.

A “no” vote would leave the existing business license taxes in place.

Because the proceeds from the increase in the business license tax rates will
be used for general fund purposes, this measure requires a majority
affirmative (“yes”) vote for approval.

<impartialend>