<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The City of Burbank’s Transient Occupancy Tax is imposed on persons who pay for short-term accommodations at a hotel, motel or
other lodging facility in the City. The tax is collected by the facility’s operator from each guest at the time the guest’s bill is paid and
then remitted to the City. The tax proceeds are deposited into the City’s General Fund and are used to pay for general City services
such as police and fire protection, parks, recreation programs, libraries, street maintenance, and traffic control.

The tax generally does not apply to anyone who resides in a hotel, motel or other lodging facility for longer than thirty days. It does
not apply to other services typically offered at hotels and motels, such as food and beverage service, banquet rooms or conference
facilities.

The City’s municipal code provides that the tax rate of the Transient Occupancy Tax shall be set by the City Council in the City’s
annual fee resolution. The current tax rate is 10% of the room rental charges paid by the guest to the facility operator. This is the
same rate that has been in effect since 1983.

This measure would amend section 14-603 of the Burbank Municipal Code to allow the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
to increase the tax to a maximum rate of 12% of room rental charges. If the measure passes, the City Council could adjust the rate
from time to time but could never raise it above 12% without additional voter approval. The measure does not affect any other taxes,
including property taxes, paid by Burbank residents and property owners.

If a majority of votes cast on this ballot measure are “Yes,” this measure will be approved and the City Council would then have the
authority to increase the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax to a maximum rate of 12%. If a majority of votes are “No,” this measure
will not be approved and the transient occupancy tax will continue to be collected at the current rate of 10%.

<impartialend>