<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
Since 1971, the City of Gilroy has imposed a Telephone and Video Users Tax, which is paid by telephone and video customers on their telephone and CATV bills. The City's tax ordinance, like many similar tax ordinances throughout the state, was written before the introduction of new communications technologies, such as cellular phones and broadband service over private networks, including voice-over-internet. The tax ordinance was also written before several changes occurred to federal law, namely, the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and the recent change in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise tax on long distance service. Taxes imposed by other California cities that contain language similar to that in the City's existing ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy, as some telecommunications providers have disagreed with the cities' application of the tax.
Measure A supplants the existing telephone and video users' tax with a modern communications users' tax, and would reduce the rate of the tax from 5% to 4.5%. The tax would be imposed on charges for the use of communication services, including both telecommunication and video services (defined to include "the transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the technology used") and ancillary telecommunications and video services (defined as "services that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications and video services"), no matter how calculated or billed (e.g. bundled services). The modernized definitions would apply to all intrastate, interstate and international communications regardless of the technology used to provide such services, and would also apply to all video programming services regardless of the technology used to provide such services (e.g. IP-TV).
The measure expands and clarifies the City's collection procedures and the process for appealing tax calculations.
Like the existing telephone and video users' tax, the communications users' tax would be a general tax, with its proceeds deposited into the City's general fund. Such funds are available to the City for all of its programs. Measure A would provide for an annual verification by third party auditors that the tax has been properly collected and that all revenues have been properly accounted for and deposited into the City's general fund.


<impartialend>