

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

Ballot Measure Q asks the voters to approve and ratify an existing tax on the
City’s water operations. The resolution proposed by Measure Q refers to this
tax as the Water Operations Tax.

The City currently transfers from its water utility to the City’s general fund an
annual payment in lieu of franchise fees and properly taxes that the City’s
water utility would pay to the City if it were privately owned. The City first
began making these annual payments over thirty years ago. This was a
common practice among cities that provide water services to their residents.
Recent court cases, however, have found that these types of payments are in
fact taxes that require voter approval pursuant to Article of the California
Constitution.

Following these court cases, a lawsuit was filed against the City by the Howard
Jarvis Taxpayers Association challenging the annual payments as being a tax
requiring voter approval. This lawsuit was resolved by a settlement agreement
that requires the City to submit the Water Operations Tax to the voters in order
for the City to be able to continue to collect this tax.

The tax rate for the Water Operations Tax consists of two components. The
first component is the in-lieu franchise fee and its rate will not exceed nine
percent of the total annual water user fees: The second component is the
in-lieu property tax and its rate will not exceed one fifth of one percent of the
water system's value with such value computed by dividing the total annual
water revenues by a ten percent capitalization rate. This is the same rate
being charged to the water utility at the present time. The Water Operations
Tax transfers about $3.2 million per year from the water utility to the City's
general fund. The general fund pays for the general municipal services of
the City such as police and fire services, street and park maintenance and
recreational programs.

In addition to approving and ratifying the Water Operations Tax, Measure 0
also requires that the water rates charged to the City’s customers be reduced
by 2%.

A “yes” vote on Measure Q adopts a resolution continuing and ratifying the
City's existing Water Operations Tax and reducing water rates by 2%. A “no"
vote will result in the tax no longer being imposed on the water utility operations
and the loss of about $3.2 million to the City's general fund. A “no” vote may
or may not reduce water rates depending upon whether the City Council uses
this $3.2 million in revenues to reduce water rates or instead funds capital
improvements to the water system that otherwise would be funded by 
indebtedness.

Measure Q will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting
on the measure.

