<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Measure C proposes an ordinance that would shorten the duration of the City’s
storm drain fee and establish a resident oversight committee.

In a 2005 mail-ballot election, owners of properties that drain into the
City-owned storm drain system voted to approve an annual fee that they would
pay for a maximum period of thirty years. The amount of the fee was determined
by an engineering analysis of the amount of impervious coverage located on
parcels. The purpose of the fee is to pay for the repair and replacement of City
storm drains and to pay for the cost of installing filtration devices to keep
polluted run-off from draining to the ocean. The fund generated by the storm
drain fee can be used only for these purposes. City Staff estimates that
approximately $1.2 million will be raised annually over the thirty-year life of the
storm drain fee.

The City created a Water Quality and Flood Protection Program that includes a
list of projects that could be constructed over the next thirty years and could be
funded by the storm drain fee. The Program recognizes that occasionally, the
City will need to re-prioritize the projects that will be funded by the fee.

If approved, this measure will shorten the duration of the storm drain fee from
thirty years to ten years, which means that the fee will not be collected after
June 30, 2016, and cannot be used to obtain long-term financing to pay for storm
drain repair and filtration projects. In addition, fewer projects will be
constructed, unless the City Council reallocates other City monies for that
purpose. At this time, neither the availability of other City funds to augment the
reduced revenue from the shortened storm drain fee nor the projects that will be
deferred, or eliminated from the Program can be ascertained. It also cannot be
determined whether the shortened duration of the fee will eliminate projects that
would preclude property damage or whether fines will be imposed against the
City for failing to satisfy water quality requirements.

The ordinance proposed by Measure C will create a five-member oversight
committee of City residents. The Committee will conduct an annual public
hearing to review: current and projected City revenues and expenditures; how
the City is spending storm drain fee revenues, and to recommend future
expenditures of fee revenues and the amount of the fee that the City should
collect each year, up to the maximum authorized by Ordinance No 418. As long
as the City is collecting the storm drain fee, the Committee cannot be
discontinued without voter approval.

To be enacted, Measure C requires approval by a majority of the City voters who
cast votes regarding this measure. Measure C is incompatible with the other
measure that is on this ballot, which would repeal the storm drain fee. This
means that if both measures receive approval by a majority vote, the measure
with the highest number of votes will prevail and will be adopted.

<impartialend>