<impartial>

MEASURE C

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council of the City of Victorville (“City Council”) has submitted a proposed Resolution to
be placed on the November 4, 2008 ballot. The text of Measure “C” is set forth in the ballot
pamphlet.

Measure “C” proposes adoption of an increase in the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) from
seven percent (7%) to ten percent (10%).

The City currently collects a TOT from guests who spend thirty (30) consecutive days or fewer in
certain hotels/motels in the City. Operators of such hotels/motels collect the TOT from their
guests and forward the collected tax to the City for deposit into the City’s General Fund. A
complete description of the TOT is located in Chapter 3.12 of the City’s Municipal Code, which is
accessible on the City’s website at www.victorville.ca.us.

The City Council spends General Fund monies according to its adopted budget for the support of
the ordinary and necessary operations of the City, including many public services such as police,
fire and paramedic services, planning and public works, youth and senior programs, and parks
and recreation, etc. Among other General Fund Expenditures, the City can use funds derived
from the proposed increase to offset the cost of police, fire, and other services used by the guests
of the hotels/motels.

City staff estimates that voter approval of this measure would increase General Fund revenues by
approximately an additional Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($400,000) per year.

The current TOT rate is seven percent (7%) of the cost of a room in a hotel/motel. The TOT rate
has remained unchanged since 1984. This ballot measure places a Resolution before the voters
to increase the TOT rate from seven percent (7%) to ten percent (10%). If voters approve this
measure, the TOT would increase to a rate often percent (10%).

A “yes” vote on this measure means that the TOT will increase from seven percent (7%) to ten
percent (10%), commencing January 1, 2009. A “no” vote on this measure means that the TOT
will remain at seven percent (7%). This Measure “C” will become effective only if a majority (at
least fifty percent plus one) of the voters voting in the election approve it.

<impartialend>