<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

PROPOSED CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS TAX
BALLOT MEASURE T

The City of Santa Cruz, along with the cities of Watsonville and Capitola and the
County of Santa Cruz, is a member of the Santa Cruz County Emergency Communications Center Joint Powers Authority, a separate legal entity which constructed,
and now operates and maintains, the Santa Cruz County Emergency Communications Center. The Emergency Communications Center provides “911” emergency
communication dispatch service for jurisdictions throughout Santa Cruz County
with the exception of Scotts Valley.

Since 2003, the City has generated the revenue necessary to pay for its proportionate share of Emergency Communications Center operating and capital costs
through the assessment of an emergency response or “9-1-1 ” fee assessed to telephone users in the City and paid as part of the user’s monthly telephone bill. In April
2008, a California appellate court declared that tax revenue must be used to fund
9-1-1 emergency call centers rather than fees of the type historically charged by
the City. Accordingly, in the future the City will now pay for its share of Emergency
Communications Center costs with money from its General Fund which is also
used to pay for other City operations and public safety costs.

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would impose a tax in the amount of
$3.49 per month on every person who subscribes to telephone service within the
City. All revenue generated from the proposed tax would be deposited into the
City’s General Fund and, accordingly, would be available for use by the City to pay
for general City operations and public safety services including emergency communication services provided by the City by virtue of its participation in the Santa
Cruz County Emergency Communications Center Joint Powers Authority.

The Santa Cruz City Council, in conjunction with its placement of this initiative on
the August 2008 ballot, adopted a resolution finding that the addition of Emergency
Communications Center cost liability to the City’s General Fund will increase the
anticipated General Fund budgetary shortfall to a figure approximating $5,000,000
and that the proposed tax is therefore necessary in order to avoid reducing or eliminating City programs and City services which are paid for with General Fund revenue including governmental services necessary to preserve the health, safety and
general welfare of the City’s residents, workers and visitors such as public safety
services and emergency communication services.

The $3.49 monthly tax rate corresponds in amount to the $3.49 per month emergency response fee paid by City telephone users through December 2007.

This ballot measure proposes a “general tax” rather than a “special purpose tax”
and therefore requires a simple majority for adoption.

<impartialend>