

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

The City Council of the City of Half Moon Bay called a special election to
place Measure Q before the voters to approve a two percent increase in the
City’s Transient Occupancy Tax, a tax paid only by hotel guests. This
initiative measure has been designated as a general tax that requires
approval of a majority of the voters voting on the issue at the June 3, 2008
election. The City Council called the special election based on its finding
that a fiscal emergency exists that required it to place the tax on the
June 3, 2008 election.

Chapter 3.12 of the Half Moon Bay Municipal Code sets forth the
provisions of the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax. A Transient Occupancy
Tax is a tax paid by a guest on the rental of a hotel room. “Hotel” is defined
in Municipal Code Section 3.12.020 (A) as an inn, tourist home or house,
motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobilehome or house
trailer. The hotel operator collects this tax from its guests and transmits the
funds to the City. Municipal Code Section 3.12.030 currently sets this tax
at a rate of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged by the hotel operator.

This initiative measure, if approved by the voters, will amend Section
3.12.030 of the Half Moon Bay Municipal Code by raising the City’s
Transient Occupancy Tax rate from ten percent (10%) of the room rate
charged to twelve percent (12%) of the room rate charged.

The proceeds of a general tax are unrestricted and may be used by the City
to fund any and all general services. The proceeds from the proposed two
percent (2%) general tax increase will be placed into the general fund and
can be spent by the City for any governmental purposes, including but not
limited to: library services; youth and senior facilities, programs and
services; police services; park and recreational facilities and programs; and
City streets. The tax proceeds can also be used for other City purposes.

If this initiative measure is approved, voter approval would be required for
future increases to the tax rate or revisions to the methodology for
calculating the tax rate.

