<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Initiative Measure to be Submitted Directly to the Voters

The City Attorney for the City of Kerman has prepared the following title and summary
of the chief purpose and points of the proposed measure:

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF KERMAN
TO ADD CHAPTER 5.50 TO TILE 5 OF THE CITY OF KERMAN MUNICIPAL CODE
ESTABLISHING A TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

This measure, if approved by a majority of the voters voting in the City of Kerman’s
November, 2008 General Election, would establish a Transient Occupancy Tax in the
City of Kerman by adding Chapter 5.50 to the City of Kerman Municipal code.

A Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”) is also known as a “room tax”, “hotel/motel tax” or
“bed tax." A TOT is collected by a hotel, motel or other business offering dwelling,
lodging or sleeping accommodations as an additional charge to its overnight guests
who stay for a period shorter than 30 consecutive days.

Many local cities and counties already impose a TOT, and the amount of their tax
ranges from 4% to 10% of the room rental rate and reportedly helps pay for the public
services and facilities that out of town visitors use when they stay in those cities and
counties.

The TOT proposed by this ordinance would establish the tax as 8% of the room rate,
and could not be changed except by the voters of Kerman. In addition, only the voters
could expand the class of persons subject to the TOT. The City Council would have the
power to change other provisions of this ordinance by a four-fifths vote.

This measure would require the operators of hotels, motels and similar lodgings to
register with the City of Kerman and make monthly reports and payments of the TOT
collected. The measure establishes procedures for proper record-keeping and
collection of the TOT. If approved by the voters, the City would begin collecting the
TOT in January, 2009.

This measure is not expected to have any impact on the physical or business
environment, and its fiscal effect would be to produce revenue for the City’s General
Fund.

<impartialend>