
<impartial>


CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE RR
City of San Leandro Utility User Tax Reduction
and Fairness

The San Leandro City Council has placed a measure on
the November 4, 2008 ballot asking voters to adopt an
ordinance adding Chapter 2-17 of Title 2 of the San Leandro Municipal Code to update the City’s utility users tax
(UUT). San Leandro Municipal Code Chapter 2-4 currently imposes a UUT charged to persons utilizing electrical
energy; gas delivered through mains or pipes; using
intrastate, interstate and international telephone service
and using cable television service furnished by a cable
television corporation within the City. The tax is collected
by service providers from customers. All UUT revenue is
deposited in the City’s general fund and used for general
governmental purposes including police, maintenance and
improvements to city streets and sidewalks and parks and
recreation programs. The proposed measure enacts a tax
that reflects changes in modern technology, meets current
legal standards and lowers the tax rate from 6% to 5.7% on
telecommunication and video services.

When San Leandro’s UUT ordinance was initially adopted, the ordinance followed the pattern of nearly all other
UUT ordinances. In particular, in defining the circumstances where the UUT could be collected on telecommunication services, the ordinance makes specific reference
to the Federal Excise Tax (FET) with respect to its application. The definitions and terminology contained in the
ordinance have not been changed since the UUT was
adopted. Consistent with an IRS ruling in 1979, San Leandro’s UUT and FET have been assessed for telephone
charges that are based on time and distance, as well as cellular phones and rate plans that are based only on time or
bundled plans, which combine billing for various types of
services.

After revolutionary changes in telephone communication
technology and customer billing methods, the IRS has
faced legal challenges to its collection of the FET for wireless communications services that are billed based on time
only or “bundled” billing plans. On May 25,2006, the IRS
reversed its long standing interpretation and ruled that the
FET would no longer apply to wireless communications
that are billed in such a manner. The key legal issue is

whether the reference to the FET in San Leandro’s ordinance could jeopardize the continued collection of the
City’s UUT.

The proposed measure amends the ordinance to address
the FET legal issue and also incorporates modem terminology to remain current with evolving communications
technology. The proposed amendment treats users communications services in a uniform and equitable manner,
regardless of the means of transmission or technology
used.

If this measure is adopted, most technology users will not
see much change in their monthly bills, and those using
traditional local and long distance telephone services will
see a tax rate drop. For wireless customers, there may be a
nominal increase for services such as text messaging, and
those using private communication services will see a
nominal tax increase. Internet services such as email,
browsers and digital download will not be taxed.

A majority vote of the electorate is required for adoption.

<impartialend>