
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE UU

The City Council of the City of Union City (“City”)
has placed Measure UU on the ballot to ask voters to
approve an extension and enhancement of the special tax
for “public-safety services” previously approved by the
voters in 2004. This tax constitutes a special tax pursuant
to the California Constitution (Proposition 218), which
requires approval by two-thirds of those voting to pass.

The City operates both police and fire departments that
serve the City. Both departments employ a significant
number of full-time employees. The City provides equipment and stations for both departments. The City also
operates other departments that run programs that contribute to the maintenance of public safety in the community. The proceeds from the Measure will be used to purchase, operate and maintain equipment for public-safety
services, to pay salaries of police and fire personnel, and to
provide funding for other public-safety services expenses.
The Measure also has been enhanced to provide $500,000
annually for youth violence prevention and intervention
programs and services.

The Measure will “sunset” after eight (8) years and
cannot be renewed without a future vote. It will be
imposed on the occupants of residential and non-residential property within the City based on estimated usage of
public-safety services. The amount of the tax will be based
on the use of the property and parcel size, as set forth in
Measure UU, and will result in the typical residential
property owner paving approximately $20 per year more
than under the 2004-approved public-safety services tax.
The Measure will be adjusted annually in accordance with
the Consumer Price Index and any annual adjustment
would be capped at two percent (2%).

As with the 2004-approved public-safety services tax,
the Measure will not be imposed on unimproved parcels,
and a partial refund will be available for unoccupied
improved non-residential parcels. The City will be authorized to contract with Alameda County to collect the tax
on the property tax rolls. As the City Council did with the
2004-approved public-safety services tax, if the Measure
is enacted, a low income exemption from the tax will
apply for the duration of the tax.

If this measure does not receive at least two-thirds
(2/3) approval of those voting, the measure will fail and

