

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
The City Council of the City of Union City ("City") has placed Measure K on the ballot to ask voters to approve an extension and enhancement of the special tax for "public-safety services" previously approved by the voters in 2004. This tax constitutes a special tax pursuant to the California Constitution (Proposition 218), which requires approval by two-thirds of those voting to pass.
 The City operates both police and fire departments that serve the City. Both departments employ a significant number of full-time employees. The City provides equipment and stations for both departments. The City also operates other departments that run programs that contribute to the maintenance of public safety in the community. The proceeds from the extended tax will be used only to purchase, operate and maintain equipment for public-safety services, to pay salaries of police and fire personnel, and to provide funding for other public-safety services expenses, such as youth violence prevention and intervention programs and services, and emergency preparedness supplies and services.
 The extended tax will "sunset" after 20 years and cannot be renewed without a future vote. It will be imposed on the occupants of residential and non-residential property within the City based on estimated usage of public-safety services. The amount of the tax will be based on the use of the property and parcel size, as set forth in Measure K.
 The extended tax will be adjusted annually in accordance with the Consumer Price Index and any annual adjustment would be capped at 3%.
 The extended tax will become effective ten days following the council certification of the election and would terminate twenty years later.
 As with the 2004-approved public-safety services tax, the extended tax will not be imposed on unimproved parcels, and a refund will be available for unoccupied improved residential parcels. The owner of the property will be required to collect the tax from the occupant (if the occupant is different from the owner) and remit the tax to the City. The City will be authorized, to contract with Alameda County to collect the tax on the property tax rolls.
 As the City Council did with the 2004-approved public-safety services tax, if the extended tax is enacted, a low income exemption from the tax will apply for the duration of the tax.
 If this measure does not receive at least two-thirds approval of those voting, the measure will fail and the City will not be authorized to collect the extended and enhanced public-safety tax, and the 2004-approved public-safety tax will expire in March of 2009.
