<impartial>



CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

The City of Hawthorne currently levies a 5% Utility Users Tax on electric, gas,
telephone, cable television and water services provided in the City. The tax is
collected by utilities from their customers, and used by the City for general
municipal purposes, such as providing police services and parks & recreation
programs.

As the existing tax ordinance was written in 1984, the language in the telephone
and cable television portions of the ordinance is outdated and do not reflect
significant advances in technology since 1984. Therefore, the tax is not imposed
on many communication services and devices that have since come into
existence, such as voice-over-internet protocol. Furthermore, recent federal
court decisions in other states have cast doubt on whether the ordinance, as
currently written, can be imposed on long distance, cellular and bundled
telephone services. Several California cities with almost identical ordinances to
Hawthorne’s are currently embroiled in litigation on this issue. Should the City
be sued, or an adverse decision be reached that is controlling in California, the
revenues collected from the current ordinance could be reduced substantially.
The City’s revenues from the telephone portion of the tax were approximately
$2.3 million in 2006-2007. This accounted for 5% percent of the City’s overall
general fund revenue.

Measure V would update the existing telephone and cable television taxes to a
modern communications users’ tax applicable to all types of communication and
video services, regardless of the technology used. The rate of the tax would
remain 5%. It would also retain the existing exemptions for seniors and the
disabled and ratify past application of the tax. The tax cannot be increased in the
future without a vote of the people. The measure has no effect on the existing
utility user tax applied to electrical, gas and water services.

A “yes” vote is in favor of adopting the updated communications tax ordinance
summarized above. A “no” vote is against adopting the ordinance. A majority of
“yes” votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>