IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “K”

Measure “K” relates to the City of Indio's existing utility user’s tax on
electricity, gas, water, telecommunication services, and video services. It
does not relate to the rate of the tax. The measure continues the
exemption for senior and disabled persons eligible to receive
Supplemental Security Income (‘SSI’) via the Social Security
Administration and updates numerous definitions and technical tax
provisions.

The City approved the existing utility user's tax ordinance in 1985, before
the introduction and popularity of many new communications
technologies and before several changes to federal law, namely, the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and the recent change
in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise tax on long distance
service. Utility taxes in other California cities containing language similar
to that in the Indio's current ordinance have been the subject of legal
controversy.

This measure treats ail technology the same, and protects Indio from
potential legal challenges that might otherwise impact tax revenue on
long distance services, including cellular and any bundled services.
Similarly, the measure applies the tax to all calls and private
communication services, e.g., T-1, paging, and text messaging, whether
within California, or to other states or countries. Internet services such as
e-mail or digital downloads (e.g., music, and ringtones) will not
be taxed.

Like the existing utility user’s tax, the tax per Measure “K* would be a
general tax, with its proceeds deposited into the City’s general fund to
allow the City to fund general governmental purposes and programs. For
example, the revenue produced by Measure “K” will help the City to fund
police, fire, road and park construction and maintenance and youth and
senior programs.

The voters' choice is whether to modernize the utility user’s tax as
summarized here and eliminate potential challenges to continued
collections under the 1985 ordinance, or not. A majority ‘yes' vote
approves the modernization presented in Measure “K,” while a majority
‘no’ vote preserves the utility usee’s tax ordinance approved in 1985.
Measure ‘K” does not effect the utility user's tax rate.

Measure ‘K‘ preserves and clarifies the utility user’s tax exemption for
seniors and the disabled. It adds a requirement, not contained in the
current tax, of annual third party auditor verification that all tax has been
properly collected and expended. It also contains a procedure for tax
refund claims through which utility service users and suppliers secure
refunds of tax paid in error through a one year period.

A “yes” vote means that you favor adopting the measure summarized
above, while a “no” vote means that you are against its adoption. A
majority of “yes’ votes is required for the measure to be enacted.