<impartial>

Measure T is submitted to the voters by the Torrance City Council to ratify and
update the City’s existing Utilities Users Tax (“UUT”), so that it can be applied
equally to both older telephone technology and to newer telecommunications
technology at the current tax rate of 6.5%, while continuing to exempt low-
income seniors and disabled persons.

Background.

A UUT is a tax levied on each user of a utility within the City’s boundaries. Since
1972 the City has imposed a telephone users’ tax on persons using telephone
service in the City. The tax is based on the telephone user’s monthly usage,
collected by the telephone provider and conveyed to the City. The current tax
rate is 6.5% of the charges billed. Measure T will not increase the tax rate. UUT
revenues are paid into the City’s general fund to finance such services as police,
fire, street repair, parks, libraries and recreation programs.

In past years, the City of Torrance, and most California cities with telephone
UUTs, relied on federal law definitions to describe which specific telephone
services are covered by the City’s UUT. These definitions have been changed by
the federal government and no longer reflect the City’s original intent.

Since 1972 telephone technology has changed greatly. Telephone companies
have introduced cell phone service and many other new services and features. It
is expected that telephone companies will continue to develop new forms of
telecommunications technology in the future.

Measure T

Measure T would ratify an ordinance previously adopted by the Torrance City
Council, which removes references to the federal law definitions from the City’s
telephone UUT. The measure would also replace older definitions with new
definitions that address new technology. The new language treats all telephone
customers the same for local tax purposes.

Measure T would not apply to digital downloads, such as books, music, games
and similar products, or cable or video television services that are instead subject
to State and Federal franchise fees.

Measure T does not increase the current tax rate of 6.5%. The tax applies to all
telephone services regardless of the technology used. Voter approval is required
for any future tax increase.

Measure T maintains existing exemptions for low-income seniors and disabled persons.

Measure T also requires annual audits to confirm the tax is properly collected
and spent by the City according to the requirements of Measure T and other
laws. The audit will be performed by a qualified independent third party. The
results of these audits will be available to the public.

Measure T requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for Measure T
will approve the modifications described above and maintain the existing tax. A
“no” vote against Measure T will leave in place the City’s existing UUT
ordinance.

<impartialend>