

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE GG

ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AND ADOPTING A
SPECIAL TAX TO FUND FIRE PROTECTION AND
EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND PREPAREDNESS
The City’s Fire Department, including its capital and
operating costs, is supported almost entirely from the
City’s general fund. This ordinance would authorize a special tax of 4.0830 per square foot of improvements in
dwelling units and 6.1790 per square foot on all other
improvements. Each year Council may adjust the tax rate
over the previous year’s rate by the greater of the increase
in the cost of living in the immediate San Francisco Bay
Area, or per capita personal income growth in California.
Property owned or held by nonprofit corporations and
used for charitable purposes would be exempt from this
tax, as provided by the California Constitution.

Tax proceeds would be used first to eliminate rotating
closures of operating fire stations. Remaining tax proceeds
would be used to provide advanced life support (“ALS”)
personnel (paramedics) and equipment on all first responder vehicles (ambulances, fire engines and ladder trucks)
and hire a training officer to provide Emergency Medical
Service training for first responders; provide binding to
hire staff to conduct Community Emergency Response
Training and other similar public disaster training and preparedness efforts and for neighborhood emergency preparedness caches; and to acquire and maintain equipment
to enhance emergency preparedness, including equipment
to allow compatible radio communications throughout the
City and with outside public safety agencies. The Council
could alter these spending priorities if it were to declare a
fiscal emergency by a two-thirds vote. In such cases the
Council would still be required to spend the tax proceeds
exclusively for the enumerated purposes. Expenditure
reports will be provided to the Disaster and Fire Safety
Commission. The Disaster and Fire Safety Commission
shall provide recommendations and feedback on the scope
of the Emergency Response and Preparedness tax to the
City Council.

Financial Implications

The proposed City special tax rate of 4.0830 per square
foot for dwelling units would limit the annual cost for an

average 1,900 square foot home to approximately $78. If
the tax is not passed, the Council may have to cut funding
of other general fund programs, to free up the necessary
funds for fire department staffing, or reduce that staffing.
Non-residential properties would pay at the higher rate of
6.1790 per square foot. In FY 2009 the tax would raise
$3,600,000.

It is estimated that the tax will cost residential and non-residential taxpayers no more than the following average
amounts during FY 2009.

Square Feet Annual Tax Rate
Residential	1900	$78	4.0830

Non-residential	1900	$118	6.1790

