<impartial>


IMPARTIAL SUMMARY


This measure would fund programs to address gang violence through gang
prevention and job training programs; programs to prevent students from
dropping out of school; supervised after-school, tutoring/mentoring and
vocational/apprenticeship programs; and expanded graffiti removal. It would
authorize the City to levy an annual $36 special tax on each real property parcel
and allow for a reduced Low Income Rate for qualifying low-income property
owners and Lifeline Rate for low-income senior and disabled property owners.

Proceeds from the special tax would be deposited into a special fund in the
City treasury to be overseen by the City Council, the Mayor and a Citizens
Advisory Oversight Committee. Special tax revenue must be used only for the
stated purposes and funding commitments will require Mayor and Council
approval.

This measure would require the Mayor and City Council to establish an
Expenditure Plan by Ordinance, which shall include procedures for the
selection and funding of eligible programs. The Expenditure Plan shall include
provisions that would: establish evaluation procedures and require Controller
audits for programs receiving these funds; require community-based public
input; and ensure funds are expended Citywide based on measurable statistics
demonstrating need.

Funds may only be spent for the following purposes:

A.	Apprenticeship and employment training programs for at-risk and gang-
involved youth;

B.	After-school and community-based programs to provide youth with
alternatives to gang involvement;

C.	Programs designed to keep students from dropping out of school;


D.	Community-based gang intervention and re-entry programs that are
designed to reduce violence by providing services to gang-involved
youth and families and to those rejoining their communities;

E.	Programs that provide safe passage to students to and from school in
high-crime and gang-impacted areas;

F.	Expanded tutoring, mentoring and homework assistance programs;

G.	Grants to local community-based organizations that have been proven
to operate effective gang prevention and intervention programs;

H.	New and expanded hours at schools and recreation centers, including
late-night, summer and weekend programming; and

I.	Annual performance and fiscal audits by the City Controller.

This measure establishes a “Maintenance of Effort” requirement, which would
prohibit the City from utilizing proceeds from the special tax to reduce the level
of other City funding currently allocated for the stated purposes of the special
tax. The Maintenance of Effort level may only be adjusted if the State or Federal
governments reduce grant funds currently available for these purposes.

This measure would require the City Controller to prepare annual performance
and fiscal audits to ensure that programs funded with proceeds from the
special tax accomplish the stated purposes. The performance audits will
assess the effectiveness of programs in achieving their stated goals based on
measurable outcomes, such as the ability of programs to reduce risk factors
for joining gangs and their long-term impacts on program participants. The City
will certify programs as effective based on the results of Controller audits and
additional evaluation efforts. Only certified successful programs will be eligible
for ongoing funding from the special tax.

The City Administrative Officer will annually report on the amount of special
tax proceeds collected and expended and the status of all programs funded
with such tax proceeds.

This measure will become effective with a two-thirds vote.

<impartialend>