

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE P

This measure is submitted to the voters by the Alameda
City Council to amend the City’s current real estate transfer tax.

Background. Real property located within the City of
Alameda has been subject to the real estate transfer tax
since 1967. This tax applies only when real property is
sold and is paid into the City’s general fund, which is allocated by the City Council through the annual budget for
general city services, such as the fire and police department, maintaining City streets and improving traffic flow
and pedestrian and bicycle safety, recreation programs and
library services.

The real estate transfer tax is currently imposed at the rate
of $5.40 for each $1,000 of the sales price. This tax is not
imposed, however, on transfers of property between
spouses or domestic partners or to transfers to a trust
where the primary beneficiary of the trust is the spouse,
domestic partner or child of the transferor.

The Measure. This measure would increase the real estate
transfer tax to $12.00 for each $1,000.00 of the sales price.
The City Council has the ability lower the rate, but voter
approval would be required for any further rate increase.
This measure maintains existing exemptions from the tax
for transfers of property between spouses, domestic partners or transfers to a trust where the primary beneficiary of
the trust is the spouse, domestic partner or child of the
transferor. The City Council may expand these exemptions, but may not reduce them.

This measure also coordinates the real estate transfer tax
with the County real estate transfer tax and provides that
real estate transactions exempt from the County tax under
state law shall also be exempt from the City’s real estate
transfer tax.

This measure also requires an annual, public audit to confirm the tax is properly collected and spent by the City
according to the requirements of this measure and other law.
This measure requires approval of a majority of voters.

A “yes” vote will approve the increase described above.

A “no” vote rejects the increase but maintains the existing
real estate transfer tax.

<impartialend>