

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE SS

City of San Leandro 9-1-1 Emergency
Communication System Access Tax
In 2004 the City adopted Ordinance No. 2004-015, as
codified in Sections 2-16 -200 et. seq. of the San Leandro
Municipal Code, to establish a fee to provide funding in
support of the City’s 9-1-1 communication system. The
system directs critical police, fire and medical resources
to calls for emergency service. The program also provides
equipment, software, facilities and personnel staffing to
operate the system. The Emergency Communication System Access fee is paid by telephone subscribers in an
amount that reasonably reflects the costs associated with
providing per line access to the City’s emergency communications system. The fees for fiscal year 2008-09 are
$2.06 per single access line, $14.41 per trunk line and
$450.44 per super trunk line, per month. Revenues generated by the 9-1-1 fee on an annual basis total approximately $2.5 million.

Like San Leandro, several California cities adopted similar 9-1-1 communication fees. The fee has interpreted to
be a user fee that can be enacted by the City Council without voter approval. This interpretation has, however,
resulted in legal challenges. Most recently, on April 29,
2008 the First Appellate District, Division Four issued a
decision in Bay Area Cellular Co. v. City of Union City
that upheld a trial court decision that the City of Union
City’s 9-1-1 Fee was in fact a “special tax” requiring a
two-thirds vote of the electorate prior to adoption in compliance with California Constitution, article C, section 2 (Proposition 218). The City of Union City has filed
a Petition to the California Supreme Court seeking review
of the decision.

In the event the trial court decision is upheld, the City of
San Leandro would be precluded from continuing collection of the current fee. To secure this revenue source, the
City is proposing an Emergency Communication System
Access Tax measure to enact a special tax at the same rate
as the current fee. If adopted, the current fee ordinance
would be repealed. If the measure fails, the City would
continue collecting the fee, unless it is legally precluded

