<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

Measure A asks the voters whether the City of Arcata should
continue its utility users tax for an additional eight years. The tax
would continue at the rate of three percent (3%) of the usage of
the following utility services used within the City’s boundaries: (1)
communication services, including telephone and video programming
services regardless of the method by which they are provided; (2)
electrical energy services; (3) gas services; (4) water services; and

(5)	wastewater collection services.

Existing tax exemptions would remain in place. These exemptions
include gas and electric usage by persons who receive Low income
Rate Assistance ("LIRA"); basic telephone service usage by persons
who receive "universal lifeline service;" and any additional exemptions
for specific classes of persons or utilities that the Arcata City Council
may adopt by ordinance or resolution.

The tax would continue to be computed on the basis of monthly
usage and service charges, and be collected by the service provider.
For each service user, the combined total tax would continue to be
capped, although the proposed tax increases the cap from the existing
$1,000 per fiscal year to a maximum of $1,500 per fiscal year.
Beginning July 1, 2010, this maximum would be adjusted annually
in accordance with the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The tax
establishes a rebuttable presumption that communication services
billed to an address located in Arcata are used in Arcata.

The City of Arcata first adopted a utility users tax in 1993, and
voters have approved the tax in 1996, 2000 and 2004. The tax as
proposed in this Measure is similar to the present utility users tax,
however, the language of the proposed tax has been updated to
allow the City to continue to collect the tax on telephone and video
programming services regardless of the technology used to deliver
the service. The impact of the revised language is that the use of
non-cable types of television and video services will be subject to
the tax as well as cable television and video services.

The utility users tax is a general tax; all revenue generated by
the tax goes to the City's general fund to fund essential governmental
services including, but not limited to, police, public works, parks and
recreation and other essential government services provided by the
City. The tax generated approximately $715,000 during fiscal year
2006-2007.

Voter approval of this Measure would implement a new utility
users tax as described above, effective December 1, 2008. The new
utility users tax would terminate automatically on November 30,
2016, eight years after its adoption. This Measure must be approved
by a majority of the voters.

<impartialend>