<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This ballot measure states that it shall be known as the "Repeal Proposition D Initiative".

SUMMARY OF PROPOSITION D

Proposition D was approved by a majority of those residents of National City who -voted on the
Proposition in the June 6, 2006 municipal election. Proposition D added Sections 4.60.010
through 4.60.180 to the National City Municipal Code, to provide for a one percent transactions
and use tax (commonly referred to as a "sales tax"). Pursuant to Proposition D, the one percent
sales tax is used for City services, facilities, and programs. The authority to levy the tax imposed
by Proposition D expires ten years from October 1, 2006 (the "Operative Date"), unless the City
Council prior to that date determines that the levy and collection of the tax is no longer necessary,
in which case the City Council has the authority to reduce the rate of tax, or terminate the
imposition of the tax. Proposition D provides that every five years the Mayor, with the approval of
the City Council, shall appoint an independent committee comprised of three experts in financial
matters who will report their recommendation to the Mayor and City Council as to whether the
transaction and use tax should remain in effect at the rate of one percent, or whether the City
Council should reduce the rate of tax or terminate the imposition of the tax.

EFFECT OF PROPOSITION M
This ballot measure would repeal Proposition D, summarized above, in its entirety.

This ballot measure provides that its provisions are severable, so that if any provision of the
measure or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity
shall not affect other.provisions or applications.

This ballot measure provides that it may not be amended except upon voter approval. If the
measure is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, it shall be considered
adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the City Council, and shall go into effect ten
days after that date.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

THE PEOPLE OF THIS CITY OF NATIONAL CITY
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.
SECTION 2.

SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.

This Initiative shall be known as the "Repeal of Proposition D Initiative".

Sections 4.60.010 through 4.60.180 of Chapter 4.60 of the Municipal Code of the
City of National City are hereby repealed.

If any provision of this measure or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
application, and to this end the provisions of this measure are severable.

This initiative may not be amended except upon voter approval.

<impartialend>