<impartial>


CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE MC

Measure “MC”, is a one percent (1%) transactions and use (sales) tax measure
that is estimated to raise one million dollars ($1,000,000) per year of additional
revenue to fund essential City services in the City of Maywood. The revenue
from the tax would be used to fund general government services including the
hiring of additional police officers, the purchase of police equipment, fire
protection services, park staff and park improvements and maintenance, youth
programs, graffiti abatement, street maintenance and repairs, traffic
improvements, and library services.

This tax would be adopted as a general tax. As a result, revenues from the tax
would be placed in the City’s General Fund and could be used for any legal
purpose. Measure “MC” is intended to prevent significant cuts to general City
services resulting from revenue shortfalls caused by decreased state funding and
other recent economic factors. Further, since this is a local tax adopted by the
people of Maywood it cannot be taken away by the State of California, County of
Los Angeles or other government entity.

State law authorizes cities to adopt transactions and use (sales) tax ordinances
with voter approval and to have those taxes administered by the State Board of
Equalization. Pursuant to law, Measure “MC” was placed on the ballot by the
Maywood City Council to ask the voters of Maywood to approve the tax at a rate
of one percent (1%). The tax would be paid in addition to current sales and use
taxes and would increase the overall effective sales tax rate in the City of
Maywood from the current rate of 8.25 percent (8.25%) to 9.25 (9.25%) percent.
Under current State law, no further increases to the tax could be imposed
without the approval of the State legislature.

By placing Measure “MC” on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of
the California Constitution (Proposition 218), which requires the voters to
approve an ordinance which establishes a general tax. This measure must be
approved by a majority of the voters.

<impartialend>