

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

If approved by a majority of the voters. Measure Z will authorize an increase from four
(4%) percent to six (6%) percent in the tax rate levied on entertainment and amusement
activities within the City of Avalon. This tax is also referred to as the "admission tax."
Admission taxes are levied on gross receipts from sales and admission fees charged for
entry to, participation in, or observation of entertainment, amusement and recreational
activities, such as a movie ticket or entry to the miniature golf course.

The admissions tax is a "general purpose tax," meaning that the revenue raised from the
tax increase would go into the City's general fund. General funds may be used for any
municipal governmental purpose. Municipal governmental purposes include fire and
police protection, disaster preparedness, maintenance of city streets, sidewalks and
landscaping and other public works, programs for youths and seniors, parks and
recreation services, and other governmental functions and services. The measure does
not bind the City to use the proceeds of the tax for any particular services, facilities, or
programs.

The increase in the admissions tax would be levied and collected at the same time and
in the same manner as the existing admission tax. In the 2006-2007 Fiscal Year, ending
June 30, 2007, the current four (4%) percent admission tax resulted in approximately
$310,000 in revenue.

Various local communities impose an admissions tax. For example, the City of Santa
Cruz imposes a 5 percent admissions tax; the City of San Mateo levies a 50 cent tax on
admissions to horse or harness racing events; the City of Pasadena levies a 50 cent tax
on admissions to the Rose Bowl, and the City of Fairfield levies an admission tax of $5
for the privilege of playing golf.

The current rate of four (4%) percent has been in effect since 1964. The City Council
voted unanimously to adopt Resolution 07-46 which authorized placement of this
measure on the ballot.