<impartial>

TOWN ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE "R"

A city may levy a Transactions and Use Tax on retail transactions
for specific purposes if: 1.) an ordinance imposing the tax is
approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the city council, and;

2.) the ordinance is subsequently approved by a two-thirds vote of the
qualified voters of the city voting in an election on the issue.

By more than a two-thirds vote of all of its members, the Town
Council approved an ordinance imposing a Transactions and Use Tax. The
Town Council has now placed that ordinance before the voters for
approval or rejection.

If approved by the voters, a Transactions and Use Tax will be
imposed upon retail transactions occurring in the Town at the rate of
one-half of one-percent (0.5%). A Transactions and Use Tax is similar
to a sales tax and will be administered by the State Board of
Equalization, which will impose a small administrative fee to cover
the costs of its services.

Tax revenues collected shall be accounted for and deposited into
a special fund designated for use only for recreation, trails and
parks. Such tax revenues may only be expended for recreation, trails
and parks.

The Transactions and Use Tax ordinance includes an expenditure
plan describing the specific projects for which the tax revenues may
be expended. Such projects include planning, construction,
maintenance, programming and administration of all Town trails, parks
and recreation facilities without supplanting existing parks and
recreation facility maintenance funds. The expenditure plan may be
amended by a majority vote of the Town Council, but the tax revenues
must still be used only for recreation, trails and parks. The Town may
incur indebtedness to finance or refinance the costs of said projects;
however such indebtedness shall be solely payable from, and may be
secured by a pledge or lien on, the proceeds of the Transactions and
Use Tax.

If Measure "R" passes, a Transactions and Use Tax of one-half of
one-percent (0.5%) will be imposed on retail transactions occurring in
the Town. Tax revenues generated will be accounted for and deposited
in a special fund and expended only for recreation, trails and parks.

If Measure "R" fails, the proposed Transactions and Use Tax will
not be imposed.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to impose a Transactions and Use Tax at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) on retail transactions
occurring in the Town. Tax revenues generated will be deposited in a
special fund and expended only for recreation, trails and parks.

A "No" vote is a vote not to impose a Transactions and Use Tax
upon retail transactions occurring in the Town. Tax revenues which
would have been generated by the proposed Transactions and Use Tax
will not be available to fund recreation, trails and parks.

<impartialend>