<impartial>

MEASURE I
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY’S

THE PROPOSAL: Measure “I” asks the voters whether the City
of Trinidad should approve a 0.75% (three-quarters of 1%) increase
to the transaction and use tax rate (commonly known as the “sales
tax”) for four years. Voter approval of this Measure would implement
this 0.75% tax as described below, for a period of four years only,
effective April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2013.

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The current 8.25% sales tax on retail
goods purchased within the City of Trinidad is actually a combination
of (1) the state sales tax and (2) the local sales tax. The state sales
tax is 6.25%, and is controlled and spent by the State; the local
sales tax is 2%, and is controlled and spent by the City. The local
sales tax rate of 2% currently includes a 1% increase approved by
Trinidad voters in 2004. This current 1% tax from 2004 is scheduled
to expire on December 31, 2008 of its own accord and is not a part
of this Measure “I”.

HOW IT WORKS: The local sales tax in the City of Trinidad -
including the current additional 1% approved by the voters—is imposed
only on (1) sales of most retail goods that occur within the boundaries
of the City of Trinidad, or (2) certain items (e.g., cars) purchased
outside of the boundaries but only if the purchaser lives within the
boundaries of the City of Trinidad. The way it is imposed, what it is
imposed on, and the procedure for collecting it are all governed by
state law. It does not apply to items which state law exempts from
sales tax.

HOW IT IS USED: The sales tax is a general tax; all revenue
generated by the local sales tax goes into the City's General Fund
where it is used to fund essential government services provided by
the City. These services include, but are not limited to, police and
fire protection, street and public facilities, park, trail and environmental
maintenance and protection, and services provided by the Town
Office. Police and fire protection support services are also provided
through these funds to surrounding communities on a limited basis.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: A “Yes” vote will implement an additional

0.75% local sales tax through March 31, 2013. This will place the
sales tax rate in Trinidad at 8.00%.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: A “No” vote will disapprove the proposed

0.75% local sales tax. This will place the sales tax rate in Trinidad
at 7.25%

<impartialend>