<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Measure A, the El Cerrito Pothole Repair, Local Street Improvement and Maintenance Measure, would raise revenue to pay for street maintenance and improvements in the City of El Cerrito by authorizing a one-half percent transactions and use tax (commonly referred to as a "sales tax") within the City. The one-half percent tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes. The new revenue measure has been approved by unanimous vote of the City Council; if approved by two-thirds of the voters, the tax would go into effect July 1, 2008.

Current State law permits cities to adopt additional sales and use taxes for special purposes. Measure A requires that the revenue raised be used only for the special purposes of "Street Maintenance and Improvements" as set forth in the Expenditure Plan that is a part of Measure A. Generally, "Street Maintenance and Improvements," for which Measure A funds could be spent by the City, include (a) repairs and other preparatory work necessary to prepare a street for resurfacing, including crack sealing, structural pavement repairs, leveling and rideability corrections, installation of curb ramps, and curb, gutter, and sidewalk repairs; (b) finish resurfacing, including installation of the final pavement surface and markings, pavement leveling, edge conform grinding, asphalt overlay, micropaving, slurry seal, and cape seal, and replacement and enhancement of pavement markings, striping, and signage; and (c) ongoing maintenance of the system in a manner to protect the City's street infrastructure; as well as related administrative costs. The City will annually prioritize the projects that the sales tax revenues will fund, to respond to the most significant maintenance and improvement needs.

In order to accelerate the schedule of street improvements, Measure A would also authorize the City to incur indebtedness in the form of bonds, notes, contractual obligations or other evidences of indebtedness to finance or refinance these costs. This indebtedness would be paid solely from the proceeds of the sales tax.
Measure A requires the City Council to appoint an independent Citizens Oversight Committee of five El Cerrito residents to monitor the expenditure of Measure A revenues and report to the People and the City Council. Members of the Oversight Committee cannot have conflicts of interest or benefit financially from Measure A revenues. The Measure also requires the City's independent auditors to complete and submit for public review an annual audit report. The audit report must review whether the sales tax revenues collected by the City are collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of applicable law.

A "yes" vote on Measure A enacts the sales tax ordinance. It is estimated by the City's Finance Department that this measure will raise an additional $16.9 million in revenue for the City over a five-year period. A "no" vote will result in the tax not being adopted.


<impartialend>