<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Ballot Measure L proposes the adoption of an ordinance which would update the
Lakewood Municipal Code chapter that governs the City’s existing Utility Users
Tax on telephone services. The proposed ordinance would not change the 3% tax
rate, and it would not have any effect on the City’s existing utility tax on
electricity, gas and water.

In 1992, the City adopted a 3% Utility Users Tax. Lakewood voters affirmed the
tax in 1997. Revenues and expenditures are independently audited annually and
the audit is made public. Elderly, disabled, and low-income residents are eligible
for an exemption, based on income and family size. The rate has remained at 3%
since 1992 and cannot be raised in the future without a vote of the people.

Utility Users Tax revenue goes into the City’s General Fund, which is used to pay
for essential City services, such as law enforcement, anti-gang and anti-drug
programs, after-school activities for youth, senior transportation programs, park
programs, and street maintenance, as well as the day-to-day operations of City
government.

Approximately $1.3 million of the City’s annual Utility Users Tax receipts come
from telephone services. The continued receipt of this amount is in severe
jeopardy. The current Municipal Code provisions, adopted many years ago, were
written before the advent of significant changes in telephone technology,
including cell phones and Voice-over-Internet Protocol phones. Recent changes
in Federal and State law, along with court decisions and pending litigation, cast
doubt on the City’s ability to collect the utility tax on these and newer forms of
telephone service unless the City’s Code provisions are modernized. The
proposed ordinance would remedy this situation, and insure that all users of
telecommunications are treated equally, regardless of the kind of phone service
they use. If the Measure is not adopted, it is almost a certainty that some users
will pay the tax and some will not, depending on the manner in which they obtain
telephone services in the future.

A “Yes” vote on Measure L is a vote in favor of adopting an ordinance
(summarized above) that will update the City’s Code and apply it equitably to all
forms of telephone service. A simple majority of “Yes” votes is required for the
ordinance to be enacted. A “No” vote is against adopting the ordinance. If the
ordinance is not enacted, the current Code provisions would remain unchanged,
which would leave in place the existing 3% tax on today’s telephone services, but
with all of the uncertainties and potential inequities described above.

<impartialend>