<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “L”

If approved by more than fifty percent (50%) of the voters voting in the
election, Measure “L” would authorize the City of Cathedral City to
impose a utility users’ tax at the rate of three percent (3%) on
telecommunication services (including telephone service), video
services (including cable television), electricity, gas and solid waste
removal.

In general, utility companies would collect the tax from consumers as part of their regular utility bills and would remit the paid taxes to the City.

Low-income seniors would be exempt from the tax, provided they are 65
years and older and are enrolled in Southern California Edison's
California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE) program. For the period
June 1, 2008, to May 31, 2009, a household of one to two people

qualifies for the CARE program if they have a combined income no
higher than $30,500. The income threshold for the CARE program
increases with the number of people in the household, to a high of
$58,000 for a household of six people.

The utility users’ tax is a general tax that is intended to alleviate the City's
ongoing general operating budget deficit. Revenue generated by the tax
would go into the City’s General Fund. The City Council spends General
Fund .monies according to its adopted budget for the support of the
essential public services, including: police, fire and paramedic services;
the development and operation of crime, gang and drug prevention
programs; emergency response improvement programs; street repairs
and maintenance; street sweeping; street medium maintenance; graffiti
removal; code enforcement; and youth and senior programs. The tax
includes a requirement for an annual financial audit performed by a
qualified, independent third party. The results of these audits would be
available to the public.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “L” means the voter is in favor of authorizing the
City to collect a utility users’ tax. A "No” vote on Measure “L” means the
voter is not in favor of the City collecting a utility users' tax.

<impartialend>