<impartial>

Ballot Measure UUT proposes the adoption of an ordinance that would reduce
the tax rate of the tax from 10% to 8% and replace the existing telephone and
cable television utility user tax with a modernized communications tax. Existing
exemptions for low-income seniors and the disabled will continue.

The current tax rate is 10%. The revenues from this tax are approximately
$9 million of the 2007-2008 budget, and represent over 10% of the general fund.
Proceeds of the current tax are deposited in the City’s general fund and used for
vital governmental services, programs and purposes. The proposed ordinance
would reduce the communications tax rate from 10% to 8%, resulting in an
overall 20% utility tax reduction to taxpayers. The tax cannot be increased in the
future without a vote of the people.

The utility user tax on telephone and cable television has been in place in
Inglewood since approximately 1975. The existing tax ordinance is outdated due
to significant advances in technology since that time; therefore the tax is not
imposed on some communication services and devices that are now in existence.
The proposed ordinance will provide a modern, functional definition of
telecommunications and video services that is technology-neutral, and includes
the use of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), broadband service, and private
networks for providing such services, unless precluded by federal statute.

Recent federal court decisions and litigation in several California cities with
ordinances similar to Inglewood’s have placed this tax revenue in jeopardy. With
an adverse ruling the revenues collected under the current ordinance, which have
funded local services for over 30 years, could be reduced substantially. Adoption
of the proposed ordinance would protect the City of Inglewood from an adverse
outcome in any such litigation. Loss of the revenue could result in substantial
service reductions in areas such as senior citizen services, youth programs, library
services, public works services, police services, and fire services.

A “yes” vote is in favor of adopting the updated communications tax ordinance
and reducing the tax rate as summarized above. A “no” vote is against adopting
the ordinance. A majority of “yes” votes is required for the ordinance to be
enacted.

<impartialend>