<impartial>

Measure D is submitted to the voters by the
Pasadena City Council to clarify and update the City's
current Utility Users Tax (“UUT”), so that it can be applied
eouaiiy both to older telephone technology and to newer
telecommunications technology at the current tax rate of 8.28%

Background. 

Residents of Pasadena have paid the UUT on
charges telephone services since 1969. UUT revenues
are paid into the City’s general fund, which is allocated by
the City Council through the annual budget for general
city services and purposes. In past years, the City of
Pasadena, and most California cities with UUTs, relied
on federal law definitions of what specific telephone
services to tax, by making references to the federal law in
the local laws.  These definitions have been changed by
the federal government and may be repealed

Since 1969, telephone technology has changed greatly. Telephone companies have introduced cell phone service and many other new services and features. It is expected that telephone companies will continue to develop new forms of telecommunications technology in the future. 

The Measure.

Measure D would ratify an ordinance previously adopted by the Pasadena City Council to remove references to the federal law definitions from the City’s UUT. The measure would replace older definitions to address new technologies and to treat all phone customers the same for local tax purposes, whether they use traditional wireline phones, cell phones, or some new forms of telephone service invented in the future. Federal prohibitions on taxes on the internet remain in effect and are not affected by Measure D. 

Measure D maintains the tax rate for the UUT at
the current amount of 8.28% for all telephone services
regardless of the technology used. The City Council can
lower the tax. but not raise it; voter approval is required
for any tax increase.

Measure D maintains existing exemptions for
low-income seniors 62 or older and disabled residents;
the Council may expand these exemptions, but may not
reduce them.

Measure D also requires an annual audit by a
qualified independent third party to confirm the tax is
properly collected by phone carriers, paid to the City
and spent by the City according to the requirements of
Measure D and other law. The results of these audits will
be available to the public.

Measure D requires approval of a majority of
voters. A “yes” vote for Measure D will approve the clarifications described above; a “no” vote against Measure D will leave in place the City’s existing Utility Users Tax Ordinance. 


<impartialend>