<impartial>

MEASURE D

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure D, the Barstow Crime Prevention/ Firefighter Recruitment Measure, would adopt an
ordinance establishing a three-quarter percent transactions (sales) and use tax to fund authorized
fire protection services, emergency medical services, police services and emergency dispatch
services.

Sixty-nine percent of proceeds would be reserved for fire protection/EMS services. These funds
could be used only to (1) obtain, furnish, operate and maintain fire protection and emergency
medical services equipment and apparatus, (2) pay salaries and benefits of fire protection and
emergency medical services personnel, (3) pay expenses associated with training and recruiting
fire protection and emergency medical services personnel, and (4) pay expenses associated with
the operation of a dispatch and emergency communications system for fire protection and
emergency medical services. These services are provided by the Barstow Fire Protection
District.

Thirty-one percent of the proceeds would be reserved for police services. These funds could be
used only to (1) obtain, furnish, operate and maintain equipment and vehicles to be used by
sworn law enforcement officers, (2) pay salaries and benefits of sworn law enforcement officers,
(3) pay expenses associated with training and recruiting sworn law enforcement officers and (4)
pay expenses associated with the operation of a dispatch and emergency communications
system for police services. These services are provided by the Barstow Police Department.

Tax proceeds could be expended only for the purposes set forth above. Proceeds could not be
used to pay the salaries and benefits of administrative personnel who do not directly provide fire
protection, emergency medical, police, or emergency dispatch services.

The tax would be administered by the State Board of Equalization. It would be paid in addition to
current sales and use taxes and would be collected at the same time and in generally the same
manner as existing sales and use taxes; though with respect to motor vehicle sales, applicability
of the tax is based on the vehicle registration address of the new owner, rather than on the place
of sale.

The current effective sales and use tax rate in the City (and in unincorporated areas of San
Bernardino County) is currently 7.75% (of which the City of Barstow only directly receives .75%).
The measure would increase the overall effective rate in the City of Barstow to 8.5%. Unlike
existing sales and use taxes, the new tax would be a City tax that could not be reallocated by the
state legislature or redirected to uses not authorized by the voters.

The Measure would establish a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to monitor expenditure of tax
proceeds. It would also require annual review by an independent auditor.

Pursuant to state law, the Measure must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the electorate in
order to be adopted.

<impartialend>