<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R

Prepared by Galt City Attorney

The Galt City Council has placed Measure R on the November 4,
2008 ballot asking voters to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-04 imposing a special transaction and use (sales) tax of 0.50% (one-half of
one percent) for police services, within the City of Galt. The tax
increase resulting from this special tax would be the equivalent of
one half of a cent on an item that costs one dollar, or fifty cents on
an item that costs one hundred dollars. A full copy of Ordinance
No. 2008-04, is provided in the sample ballot.

The current tax rate in the City of Galt is 7.75%. Of the 7.75% tax
rate, 6% goes to the State, and 1.75% goes to fund County and
City operations. The special transaction and use tax would be
levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at
retail. Accordingly, if voters approve Measure R, the total tax rate
for most purchases in the City would increase to 8.25%.

As stated above, the proposed transaction and use tax is a "special tax." Therefore, if Measure R is passed by the voters shall revenue generated from the special tax would be deposited into a separate account created solely for the purpose of funding police
services within the City of Galt, as more fully described in
Ordinance No. 2008-04, and in the Police Services Expenditure
Plan attached to Ordinance No. 2008-04 as Exhibit 1.

Ordinance No. 2008-04 also provides for the establishment of a
Citizens' Oversight Committee to conduct an annual review of the
expenditures of revenue generated from this special tax, and to
report their findings to the City Council.

Voter approval of Measure R is required by the California
Constitution. A "yes" vote is a vote to adopt Measure R allowing
the City of Galt to levy a special transaction and use tax at the rate
of 0.50%. A "no" vote is a vote against adopting Measure R and
against the special tax. Measure R requires a "yes" vote by two-
thirds of the voters in the November 4, 2008 election in order to
become effective.

<impartialend>