<impartial>

MEASURE L
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OF THE “SERVICE USER’S TAX REDUCTION AND
MODERNIZATION ACT”

Since 1968, the City of San Bernardino has imposed a Telephone and Video
User’s Tax, which is paid by telephone and video customers on the telephone and
CATV bills. The City’s tax ordinance, like many similar tax ordinances throughout the
state, was written before the introduction of new communications technologies, such
as cellular phone and broadband service over private networks, including voice-over
internet. The tax ordinance was also written before several changes occurred to
federal law, namely the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and the
recent change in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise tax on long distance
service. Taxes imposed by other California cities that contain language similar to that
in the City’s existing ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy, as some
telecommunications providers have disagreed with the cities’s application of the tax.

If adopted, the Service User’s Tax Reduction and Modernization Act
(“Ordinance”) will supplant the existing Telephone and Video Services User’s Taxes,
and would reduce the tax on these services from 7.83% to 7.75%. In addition, it would
reduce the Electricity and Gas User’s taxes from 7.83% to 7.75%.

The tax will be imposed on charges for the use of “communication services”,
which includes “telecommunication services” (defined to include “the transmission,
conveyance, or routing of voice data, audio, video, or any other information or signals
to a point, or among points whatever the technology used”), “ancillary
telecommunication services” (defined to include “services that are associated with or
incidental to the provision or delivery of video services, including but not limited to
electronic program guide services, search function, or other interactive services that
are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of video
programming”), “video services” (defined to include “any and all services related to
the providing, storing or delivering of video programming”), and “ancillary video
services” (defined to include “services that are associated with or incidental to the
provision, use or enjoyment of video programming”).

The City Manager has calculated the estimated savings to the taxpayers if
the Ordinance is approved will be approximately $258,000 annually. The approval of
the Ordinance will result in the elimination of general fund revenue that may impact
municipal services, which include police, fire, parks and recreation, and maintenance
and repair of the City’s infrastructure. The Ordinance provides that the City may not
increase the tax approved by the voters unless such increase is approved by a
majority vote of the citizens. The approval of the Ordinance shall continue the current
tax breaks for low income residents of mobile home parks and for low income
household service users.

A “Yes” vote would be a vote to approve the Ordinance reducing the current
tax rate on telephone/video, electricity and gas services from 7.83% to 7.75%.

A “No” vote would be a vote not to approve the Ordinance, and thus the
current tax rate of 7.83% on telephone/video, electricity and gas services would not
be reduced.

<impartialend>