IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “O’

This City Council-proposed measure authorizes the establishment of a
5% utility users tax in the City of Hemet (“City”) with the funds legally
required to benefit Hemet. The measure requires an exemption from the
tax for low income senior citizens, an annual financial audit, and prohibits
an increase in the tax rate without voter approval. The resulting tax will be
a general tax as provided under Article of the California
Constitution and available for general city services and purposes.

A “yes” vote is a vote to adopt the utility users tax. If the measure passes,
the utility users tax will be established, levied and administered by means
of a city ordinance in the form introduced by the Hemet City Council on
July 29, 2008 adding new Article V ('Utility Users Tax’) of Chapter 74
('Taxation'). The tax will be levied on a communication, electricity, gas,
water, and sewer (“utilities’) services provided to users of the services
within the City except for electricity generated for self-use by solar power
which will be temporarily exempted from the tax for 6 years, unless the
exemption is extended by the City Council or the voters. Communication
services include, but are not limited to, telephone, cellular phone, cable
television, satellite television, and video-on-demand services.

Upon passage of the measure and adoption of the ordinance, utility
users will be required to pay the tax to their utility provider, who will then
remit the funds to the City of Hemet. Users who directly produce gas and
electricity or purchase these services from a provider not under the City’s
jurisdiction shall pay the tax to the City directly. The ordinance authorizes
the City’s Finance Director to develop and enforce procedures to
administer this law. Appeals of the Finance Director’s decisions may be
made to the City Manager. The city may take legal action to enforce the
law.

The ordinance exempts from paying the tax low income seniors, defined
as persons 65 years of age or older qualifying as persons who are very
low income or below as published annually in the State’s Official State
Income Limits for Riverside County, and other persons or entities who
are exempted by virtue of other laws. The maximum tax rate is 5% which
cannot be raised by the City Council without submittal of the increase to
the voters, but the tax rate may be temporarily reduced by City Council.

A “no" vote is a vote not to establish such a tax, which will result in the City
not obtaining the revenue that the tax would provide.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Measure to Establish
a 5 Percent Utility Users Tax Within the City of Hemet. The definition of
each utility service and a description of how the tax is calculated and
collected are more particularly described in the ordinance.