<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

Measure B is a proposed City of Richmond ordinance that would replace the existing utility user’s
tax on telecommunication services (including telephone service) and video services (including cable
television) with an updated communications tax. The measure would reduce the current tax rate on
telecommunication services by 5%, while not changing the effective tax rate on video services.

The utility user’s tax on telecommunications and video services has been in place since 1994, and is
paid by customers on their telephone and cable television bills. Currently, the tax rate on
telecommunication services is 10%, while the effective tax rate on video services is 5%. The
revenues from this tax — approximately $6.6 million in 2006-2007 (22% of the general fund
revenue) — are used within the City for general governmental purposes and programs. The
ordinance is outdated due to significant advances in technology and changes in state and federal
law, and the tax is not applied to telecommunication and video services and devices that have come
into existence in more recent times.

The proposed ordinance would reduce the telecommunications tax rate from 10% to 9.5%, while
maintaining the effective tax rate on video services at 5%. The proposed ordinance would update
the existing ordinance to apply the tax to all types of communication and video services, unless
precluded by federal statute. Currently, a federal statute precludes local taxation of internet services
and broadband services providing access to the internet, including email. Further, the proposed
ordinance would not apply to digital downloads such as music, games and ringtones.

Taxes imposed by other California cities that contain language similar to that in the City's existing
ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy. Based on changes in federal law and
regulations, those telecommunication providers have disagreed with the cities' application of the
tax, and filed litigation against those cities. Adoption of the proposed ordinance would protect the
City of Richmond from an adverse outcome in any such litigation.

Measure B would continue to provide for an annual verification by third party auditors that the tax
has been properly collected and that all revenues have been properly expended.

The tax cannot be increased in the future without a vote of the people. The proposed ordinance has
no effect on the existing utility user’s tax applied to electrical, gas and water services.

A "yes" vote is in favor of adopting the updated communications tax ordinance summarized above.
A "no" vote is against adopting the ordinance. A majority of "yes" votes is required for the
ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>