<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P 

Measure P, the South Gate Vital City Services Measure, is a one percent
transactions (sales) and use tax measure that would raise revenue for general
City purposes; such as police, school resource and graffiti abatement personnel
and services, recreation programming, street and traffic improvements and other
general services. This would be a local tax that would be collected and placed in
the City of South Gate’s General Fund and could not be taken away by the State
of California or the County of Los Angeles.

State law provides cities the opportunity to adopt transactions and use tax
ordinances with voter approval and to have those taxes administered by the
State. Pursuant to this State law, Measure P was placed on the ballot by the City
Council of the City of South Gate to ask the voters to approve an ordinance
enacting a general transactions and use (sales) tax of one percent (1%) to be
administered by the State Board of Equalization. The one percent tax would be
paid in addition to current sales and use taxes and would be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as existing sales and use taxes. Measure P would
increase the overall effective sales tax rate in City of South Gate from the current
rate of 8.25% to 9.25%. Under current State law, no further increases to the tax
could be imposed.

Measure P states that the tax is to be used to prevent significant cuts to City
services and to provide additional City services, by funding general City services
such as hiring additional police officers, maintaining youth anti-gang and anti-
drug programs, after-school parks and recreation services, graffiti removal,
maintaining neighborhood parks, fixing potholes and City streets and other
general City services. This sales tax would be a general tax; therefore the tax
would go to the City’s General Fund and could be used for any legal municipal
purpose.

Measure P includes an accountability provision that requires the City of South
Gate to have the expenditure of the proceeds of the tax reviewed annually by an
independent auditor and to make the audits available for public review.

By placing Measure P on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of the
California Constitution, which requires the voters to approve an ordinance which
imposes a general tax.

<impartialend>