<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

The Santa Cruz County Emergency Communications Center Joint Powers Agency (Agency) is an independent agency established in 1991 after the Loma Prieta Earthquake to equip, maintain, operate, and staff the Santa Cruz County Consolidated Emergency Communications Center (9-1-1 Center). Since 1991, the 9-1-1 Center has answered and dispatched substantially all police, sheriff, fire and medical service calls and all after-hours public works request calls in Santa Cruz County. Federal Communication Commission rules will require the 9-1-1 Center to replace its present analog equipment with a digital "narrow band" system over the next few years at substantial cost.

The Agency charges the cities, County and fire districts for these 9-1-1 Center services. The Agency charged Watsonville about $1,200,000 last year to provide these services in Watsonville. The charge is based primarily on population and actual use. The City pays the Agency's bill with money from the City's "General Fund." The City's General Fund is that portion of the City's money which is not otherwise restricted by law.

The City's 2003 Emergency Response Fee Ordinance is identified in the Administrative Services Director's Fiscal Impact Analysis. In November 2003, opponents of the Fee put Measure T on the ballot in Watsonville proposing to repeal the Fee. The repeal measure failed with 62.7%of voters voting to keep the Fee in place. The 6th District of the California Court of Appeal found in an unpublished 2005 decision that a similar 9-1-1 fee imposed by the County in 2002 was legal. The 1st District of the California Court of Appeal found in an April, 2008, published decision that a similar 9-1-1 fee imposed by Union City in 2003 was not legal. Both the Santa Cruz County and Union City fees are similar to Watsonville's 2003 Fee Ordinance. Unpublished Court of Appeal decisions are not binding on California trial courts. Published decisions are binding on California trial courts. On June 9th, 2008, Union City petitioned the California Supreme Court to reverse the decision. As of August 12th, the California Supreme Court had not decided whether to accept the appeal.

The present 2003 Watsonville Emergency Response Fee Ordinance is only on land lines and capped at $2.05 per month per residential account with an automatic cost of living adjustment. If approved by the voters, this measure would impose a general tax of $2.05 per month on all telephone lines, cellular, land lines and voice over internet protocol (VoIP) but no automatic cost of living adjustment. The money would be deposited into the General Fund and be available to pay for general City operations and payments to the 9-1-1 Center.

The City's Administrative Services Director has prepared a separate fiscal impact analysis describing the financial impact of the proposed general tax measure as contrasted with the existing Emergency Response Fee ordinance.
This measure is a general tax and therefore requires a simple majority vote to pass.

<impartialend>