<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

If approved by the voters, Measure O will provide for an additional 1/4-
cent tax on each dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City of Campbell,
and on the storage, use or consumption in the City of Campbell of
goods purchased from a retailer. This tax is commonly known as a
"sales tax," and is technically referred to as a "transactions and use
tax." The tax will be deposited into the City's general fund, and may be
used for general municipal governmental purposes, including police and
fire services, street and sidewalk maintenance, public works, the
Community Center and senior programs, and other governmental
functions and services. The measure does not bind the City to use the
proceeds of the tax for any particular services, facilities, or programs.

The  1/4-cent sales tax would be in addition to the current sales tax, and
would be collected in the same manner as the existing sales tax.
Presently, the combined State and local sales tax rate in Campbell
totals 8 1/4 cents per dollar. Of this amount, the State receives 
cents, the City receives 1 cent, the Santa Clara County Transit District
receives 1/4 cent, and the Santa Ciara Valley Transportation Authority
receives 1/4 cent.

Each year an independent auditor shall complete a financial compliance
and audit report to include the revenue raised by the tax and its
expenditure.

The proposed tax is authorized by State law subject to approval by two-
thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters voting in an
election on the tax. On August 5, 2008, the Campbell City Council
unanimously approved the proposed measure. A full copy of the text is
printed in these ballot materials.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 4, 2008 election,
the Measure 1/4-cent sales tax would become operative beginning on
April 1, 2009.

A YES vote will approve the measure,

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>