<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

Prepared by Stockton City Attorney

MODERNIZATION OF COMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX

Since 1969, the City of Stockton has imposed a
Telecommunication and Video Services Users Tax,
which is paid by telephone and video Customers on
their telephone and cable television bills. Over the
past years, the percentage tax has been reduced from
8% to 6%. 

Measure U supplants the existing telephone and video
users tax with an updated communications users tax,
and would maintain the current tax rate of 6%. The
measure uses modem terminology to: include
communications through new technologies and to
remain current in 'spite of evolving communications
technology. Thus, it treats users of. communication
services in a uniform, and equitable manner,
regardless of the means of transmission or technology
used. As a result, private communication services
(e.g., T-1), voice over internet protocol (VoIP), paging,
text messaging, and internet protocol video (IP-video)
would be treated the same as traditional telephone
and cable TV services.

Stockton’s tax ordinance, like many similar tax
ordinances throughout the state, was written before
the introduction of new communications technologies,,
such as cellular phones and telecommunication
service over private, networks. The tax ordinance was
also written before several changes occurred to
federal law, namely, the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act of 2000 and the recent change in the IRS
interpretation of the federal excise tax on Jong distance
service. Taxes imposed by other California cities that
contain language similar to that in Stockton’s existing
ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy,
as some lawsuits have brought, disagreeing with the
other cities’ application of the tax. This measure would
remove outdated ordinance language that is the
subject of lawsuits in other jurisdictions, and protect
the City’s existing tax revenues from such legal
challenges. 

Like the existing telephone and video users tax, the
communications users tax would be a general tax, with
its proceeds deposited into, the City of Stockton’s
general fund. Such funds are available to the City for
all of its programs. Measure U would provide for an
annual verification by third party auditors that the tax
has been properly collected and that all revenues have
been properly accounted for and deposited into the
City’s general fund. The measure also expands and
clarifies the City’s collection procedures and the
process for appealing tax calculations.

<impartialend>