<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

Since 1997, the City of Huntington Park has imposed a 7% Telephone Users’
Tax, which is paid by telephone customers on their telephone bills. The City’s tax
ordinance, like many similar tax ordinances throughout the state, was written
before the introduction of new communications technologies, such as cellular
phones and broadband service over private networks, including voice-over-
internet. The tax ordinance was also written before several changes occurred to
federal law, namely, the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and
the recent change in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise tax on long
distance service. Taxes imposed by other California cities that contain language
similar to that in the City’s ordinance have been the subject of legal controversy,
as some telecommunications providers have disagreed with the cities’ application
of the tax.

Measure B supplants the existing telephone users’ tax with a modern
communications users’ tax, and would reduce the rate of the tax from 7% to
6.5%. The tax would be imposed on charges for the use of communication
services, including both telecommunication services (defined to include “the
transmission, conveyance, or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other
information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the
technology used”) and ancillary telecommunications services (defined as
“services that are associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment
of telecommunications services”, and including, among other things, directory
assistance, voice mail services, and conference calling services).
“Telecommunication services” specifically excludes digital downloads, such as
books, music, ringtones, games, and similar digital products that are not
“ancillary telecommunication services.”

The Measure would continue to exempt from the tax low income seniors, public
agencies, public schools, and water corporations. It would also retain a cap on
the maximum total utility users taxes (including taxes on other utilities, such as
gas and water service) payable to the city during any calendar year by any single
taxpayer (currently $86,614).

The measure expands and clarifies the City’s collection procedures and the
process for appealing tax calculations.

Like the existing telephone users’ tax, the communications users’ tax would be a
general tax, with its proceeds deposited into the City’s general fund. Such funds
are available to the City for all of its programs. Measure B would provide for an
annual verification by third party auditors that the tax has been properly
collected and that all revenues have been properly expended.

<impartialend>