<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF MCFARLAND
MEASURE E

The City Council of the City of McFarland is submitting Measure E to the voters to
establish a Utility Users Tax (UUT) on the use of utilities in the City, including tele-communications services, electric energy, natural gas, water, sewer, cable television, and refuse and trash collection and recycling. The revenues from the UUT
will be deposited in the City’s General Fund to fund the City’s shortfall in paying for
the current expenses of the City.

The City Council unanimously approved placing the UUT on the ballot and if approved by a majority of the voters, the UUT would be imposed on the first regular
utility billing period after September 1,2008.

Measure E establishes a 15% UUT on the charges for each utility service. In future
years, the City Council may reduce, but cannot increase, the UUT rate for any utility service. California law requires voter approval for any future UUT tax rate increase. In addition, Measure E authorizes the City Council to adopt exemptions
from the UUT.

Measure E requires each utility service provider to collect the UUT from its customers at the time that the utility service provider charges its customers for utility
services and remit the tax revenues to the City on a monthly basis. Delinquent
taxes are subject to a penalty that is 15% of the delinquent amount plus interest at
3/4% per month from the date that the UUT first became due. An additional penalty of 15% may be assessed for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting
the UUT. In the case where the City has assumed the responsibility of collecting
the tax, the City may attach a penalty of 25% on the delinquent charges plus
interest at 3/4% per month.

In the event that a utility service user believes the UUT was erroneously paid, the
service user may submit a claim for a refund to the City Council within one year
from the date that the UUT was paid in error.

Measure E requires the approval of a majority of the voters voting on the measure.
A “yes” vote for Measure E will approve establishing the UUT; a ‘'no” vote against
Measure E will oppose establishing the UUT.

<impartialend>