IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O



Measure O would enact an ordinance that replaces the existing
telephone User Tax with a Communications User Tax. The
Telephone User Tax has been levied on users of land-line telephones within the City of Sacramento since 1969. In 1993, the tax was extended to include users cellular telephones. Under existing Telephone User Tax ordinance users of land-line and cellular telephones are taxed at a rate of 7.5% of their telephone service charges, while users of communication services provided by newer technologies are not taxed. 


Measure O would reduce the tax rate by one-half of one percent
and expand the scope of communication services subject to the
tax. More specifically, if enacted, Measure O would reduce the tax
rate currently paid by users of land-line and cellular telephones
from 7 5% to 7%, while users of other communication services not
currently taxed would be subject to a 7% tax.

Measure O would revise the definitions of communications services subject to the tax, to include new and emerging technologies,
and to be technology-neutral so that all communications services,
including those provided through traditional land-line telephone,
wireless, and broadband services,  are treated uniformly. For
example, the tax would apply to users of voice, audio, video, and
data services such as Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP), text
messaging, and instant-messaging, regardless of the technology
or mode of transmission, including by public switched network,
fiber optic/coaxial cable, power line, broadband, digital subscriber
line, and wireless transmission. It would also apply to users of
ancillary telecommunication-services such as voice messaging,
directory assistance, and conference-bridging services. Certain
of these services may already be subject to the tax depending
upon how the taxpayer’s telephone provider bills for services.
Measure O would not tax internet access, email, or downloads of
digital products. 

Additionally, Measure O would require the City to perform annual
independent audits to verify that tax revenues are properly
expended. It also would continue the existing tax refund program
for low-income residents. Finally, Measure O would prohibit tax
rate increases without voter approval.

A “yes“ vote is in favor of enacting the Communications User Tax
ordinance. A “no” vote is against enacting the ordinance, and
would leave in effect the existing Telephone User Tax. A majority
of “yes” votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.