<impartial>

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY
BY GERRY F. MILLER, CHIEF LEGISLATIVE ANALYST

This measure would amend the City’s existing utility users tax on telephone
services (TUT) by replacing it with a communications users tax (CUT). The CUT
would reduce the existing TUT rate from 10 percent to nine percent and would
be modernized to apply to current and evolving communications technologies.

Since 1967 the City has had a utility tax on telephone use. Similar taxes on
telephone services exist in cities throughout the country. The funding from the
existing TUT is placed in the City’s General Fund to finance such services as
police, fire, street resurfacing, traffic lights, street repairs, library staffing and
recreation and parks programs. Currently, the TUT generates approximately
$270 million per year.

A variety of factors is leading to declining revenues. New technologies, such
as “voice-over internet-protocol” (essentially telephone calls through a
computer) and private communications lines, are replacing land lines. As a
result, communications that could only occur over land lines are now occurring
using modern technology. Communications over land lines and cell phones
are still taxed, while similar communications using new technologies are not.

Additionally, lawsuits have been filed, challenging the legality of the TUT. The
City’s TUT ordinance referenced the Federal Excise Tax (FET) when the City’s
ordinance was originally adopted. In recent years, changes in FET taxing
policy have expanded exemptions.to charges that were not included when the
City’s utility tax was enacted. The lawsuits contend that because of the change
in federal taxing policy, certain telephone services should now be exempt from
the City TUT. However, the City asserts that it never intended to allow the
federal government to control the City’s TUT through changes in federal taxing
policy and has continued to levy the tax. The court cases involving the City
and various other cities throughout the State of California are ongoing. While
many other cities throughout the country had similar telephone utility taxes
which referenced FET exemptions, other states do not have the equivalent of California’s Proposition 218 which requires voter approval of an update to the
City’s TUT. Those cities have simply updated their ordinances without going
to a vote of the people. Pursuant to Proposition 218, the City is submitting this
replacement charge to the voters for approval.

In order to protect this revenue source for municipal services, and update the
application of the TUT to recognize evolving communications technologies,
the Mayor and Council are proposing that the City’s utility tax on telephones
be replaced with a CUT. The CUT would reduce the existing TUT rate from 10
percent to nine percent and the ordinance would be modernized to include
communications through new technologies. The tax would not apply to digital
downloads, such as books, music, ringtones, games and similar products, or
cable or video television services that are instead subject to State and federal
franchise fees.

Various rate reductions and/or exemptions will remain unchanged from the
existing ordinance, including exemptions for low-income elderly and disabled
persons, non-profit hospitals and non-profit educational institutions. The CUT
also imposes new requirements on the City to annually review application of
this ordinance and provides other clarifying administrative language. Any
future increase in the CUT rate or elimination of exemptions would require a
vote of the electorate.

Approval of this measure would require a majority vote of the electorate. If this
measure fails to receive a majority vote, the existing 10 percent TUT will remain
in effect.

<impartialend>