<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE D

Ballot Measure D proposes the adoption of an ordinance that would
replace the existing telephone utility user tax with an updated
communications tax.

The utility user tax on telephone services was adopted by the City
of Malibu in 1991 shortly after incorporation as a continuation
of a County tax already in place. The tax has been imposed on
telephone customers in the City and collected on their telephone
bills at a rate of 5% for the past seventeen years. The revenues
from the telephone tax - approximately $1,036,000 in 2006-2007
(approximately 4% of the general fund revenue) - are used
exclusively within the City for general governmental purposes. The
existing tax ordinance is outdated due to dramatic changes in the
telephone industry and significant advances in technology since
that time, and the tax is not imposed on communication services
and devices that have since come into existence.

The proposed ordinance would reduce the tax rate from 5% to
4 Vi %. It would also retain the existing exemption for seniors.
The proposed ordinance would update the existing ordinance to
apply the telephone tax to all types of communication services,
unless precluded by federal statute. Currently, a federal statute
precludes local taxation of internet services, email, and broadband
services providing access to the internet. Further, the proposed
ordinance would not apply to digital downloads such as music,
games and ringtones.

The tax cannot be increased in the future without a vote of the
people. The proposed ordinance has no effect on the existing utility
user tax applied to electrical, gas and water services.

Recent federal court decisions in other states have cast doubt on
whether the ordinance, as currently written, can be imposed on
long distance, cellular and bundled telephone services. Several
California cities with ordinances similar to Malibu’s are currently
embroiled in litigation on this issue. Should California courts
determine such ordinances inapplicable to those telephone
services, the revenues collected from the current ordinance would
be reduced substantially. Adoption of the proposed ordinance
would protect the City from an adverse outcome in any such
litigation.

A “yes” vote is in favor of adopting the updated communications
tax ordinance summarized above. A “no” vote is against adopting
the ordinance. A majority of “yes” votes is required for the
ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>