<impartial>

MEASURE U
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE

The City Council of the City of Pacific Grove (“City”) placed Measure
U on the June 3, 2008 ballot to ask voters to consider an Ordinance
enacting a general Transactions and Use (sales) Tax of one percent
(1%) to be administered by the State Board of Equalization. The Pacific
Grove Vital City Services Measure would raise revenue for general
purposes, including police and fire personnel, recreation programs, street
improvements, municipal reserves and City services. The one percent
(1 %) tax would be in addition to current sales taxes and be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes. This tax
cannot be taken away by the State of California or the County of Monterey.

If approved by a majority of qualified voters of the City voting on this matter,
Measure U shall amend the Pacific Grove Municipal Code.

The Pacific Grove Vital City Services Measure states the one percent
(1 %) sales tax shall be used to continue essential funding to maintain
police, fire, and emergency services; to ensure the public peace, health
and safety of the community; to avoid work stoppage and/or service
disruptions that result from additional staff cuts; and to avoid permanent
impairment of community services provided by the police, fire, library,
museum, recreation departments and cultural resources within the City.

The tax shall be used to maintain local services, repair coastal trails,
and fund repairs to potholes, sidewalks, local streets, street lighting, and
unsafe parks. This sales tax would be a general tax and would go into the
City’s General Fund to be used for any and all legal municipal purposes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City
to levy a transaction tax at a rate of 0.25 percent, or a multiple thereof,
provided the tax is approved by a majority of the voters voting in an
election on that issue. The proposed tax will increase the local sales tax
rate in the City from the current 7.25% to 8.25%.

Measure U includes a requirement that the City publish independent
annual audits for public review to specify how funds raised by this Measure
are spent for City Services.

By placing Measure U on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of
the California Constitution. This requires voters approve any Ordinance
that imposes a general tax. The City Council, by Resolution No. 08-007,
adopted on February 27, 2008, unanimously determined and declared a
financial emergency may cause crippling consequences of budget depletion
that would severely impair public health and safety. Copies of Resolution
No. 08-008, calling a special municipal election, and the proposed Ordinance
are printed in the sample ballot.

A “YES” vote on Measure U means the City’s Municipal Code shall be
amended to add the general Transactions and Use (sales) Tax of one
percent (1%). A “NO” vote means the tax shall not be added.

<impartialend>