<impartial>

This Measure would amend the Municipal Code by adopting an Ordinance
entitled the “Long Beach Infrastructure Reinvestment Act” to raise revenue
solely for the purpose of financing certain infrastructure projects. Measure I, if
approved by two-thirds of the voters, would authorize the City to impose a
special tax on parcels of real property within the City. By law, the revenue from
the special tax can only be used for acquisition, improvement, repair,
replacement, rehabilitation, relocation, restoration, and preservation of the
following:

-	Streets, signals, sidewalks and alleys.

-	Storm water collection, transportation, detention and discharge systems.

-	Fire and police stations and other public safety facilities.

-	Parks and recreation and community facilities.

-	Open space and wetlands.

-	Libraries and health facilities.

The revenue may also be used for the payment of debt service on and the
administration of any bonds issued for the improvements listed above.

The proposed Ordinance establishes an annual parcel tax of $120.00 per year
($10 per month) per parcel with a single family residence, or per unit with a
multi-family residence. Rates for commercial and other uses would vary
depending upon parcel and building size. The formula to compute the parcel tax
for commercial and other property types is specified in the Ordinance, a copy of
which is included in the Sample Ballot materials and is available from the
City Clerk. The rates are subject to annual increases based on the annual percent
increase in the Consumer Price Index.

The proposed Ordinance establishes a procedure for senior citizens and disabled
persons who own and occupy a single family residence to apply for an exemption
from the tax.

The proposed Ordinance requires that all tax proceeds be deposited in a special
fund subject to an annual independent audit report by the City Auditor which
will set forth the amount of the tax collected and expended and the status of any
projects funded with tax proceeds. It further requires the establishment of a
Citizen’s Oversight Committee to review the amount of tax revenue collected
and expended, to make recommendations on the priority of funded projects, and
to submit an annual public report of findings to the City Council.

Two-thirds of those voting on Measure I must approve the measure for it to pass.
A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax. A “no” vote is a vote
against authorizing the parcel tax.

<impartialend>