<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
The City currently imposes a monthly fee on telephone customers in the amount of $1.75 per telephone line and $13.13 per commercial type trunk line. The purpose of this fee is to help pay for part of the cost of operating the City emergency communications (9-1-1) system.
Measure J, if approved, will eliminate the emergency communications system support fee, and replace it with a tax in an amount that is 10% less than the current fee. The new tax amount will be $1.57 per telephone line per month and $11.82 per commercial type trunk line. The tax would be collected from telephone users on their phone bills
Persons who are exempt from the existing fee, including low-income seniors and disabled persons who receive lifeline telephone service, would be exempt from payment of the proposed tax.
Money that the City receives from the current fee can only be used for paying costs associated with the City's 9-1-1 emergency call center. The Municipal Code currently prohibits use of the fee revenue to pay for costs associated with the police and fire department personnel who respond to 9-1-1 calls. If the proposed tax is approved, money that the City would receive would be placed in the General Fund and could be used to support all City services, including police, fire, emergency response, parks, and libraries. The revenues from the proposed tax would be subject to the annual audit performed by the City's independent auditor which is reported in the City's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
The current fee is set to expire on June 30, 2009. Also, the ability to collect this type of fee has been the subject of legal challenges in other jurisdictions. If the proposed tax is approved, the City will cease collecting the fee and begin collecting the tax on April 1, 2009. If the proposed tax is not approved and the fee is not extended by the City Council, the estimated annual revenue loss to the City is $24 million. If the proposed tax is approved, it is estimated to generate $22.6 million annually.
A "yes" vote is a vote to terminate collection of the fee and replace it with a reduced tax.
A "no" vote will not affect the fee, and would prevent the City from replacing the fee with a reduced tax.


<impartialend>