<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY ROCKLIN CITY ATTORNEY

Effect of Measure on Existing Law

Under current law, the Rocklin Park Maintenance and
Development Act of 1998 levies an annual special tax on
all residential parcels within the City in the amount of
$30 per year for each single-family dwelling. The
assessment for each multi-family dwelling
(condominiums, duplexes, triplexes, and apartments)
mobile home units, and vacant residential lots ranges
from $10 to $30 per year. The current tax has a 10 year
sunset provision and will expire in June of 2009. The tax
levy amounts have been unchanged over the term of the
Rocklin Park Maintenance and Development Act of
1998.

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on the measure, would continue the annual
special tax for Park Maintenance and Development and
replace the existing special tax, The tax would increase
the levy on residential properties to a base amount of
$45 per year for each single-family dwelling. However,
seniors age 62 and over are eligible for a discounted
rate of $10 per year which is unchanged from the
existing tax. The tax would be levied and collected in the
same manner as the current Park Maintenance and
Development annual special tax.

Operation of Measure

The measure would:

• Continue the current Park Development and
Maintenance annual special tax. The amount to
be levied would increase from the current
amount of $30 per year per single-family
residence to a base tax of $45 per year per
single-family residence, The assessment for
each multi-family dwelling (condominiums,

duplexes, triplexes, and apartments) mobile
home units, and vacant residential lots ranges
from $10 to $45 per year.

•	Include a senior discount program for eligible
residents age 62 and over providing for a
discounted rate of $10 per year which is
unchanged from the existing tax.

•	Provide for an annual adjustment for inflation
based on the California Consumer Price Index
for All Urban Consumers.

•	Prohibit the City Council from increasing the tax
rate without voter approval.

•	Require the special tax revenues to be used
only for park development and maintenance
purposes.

•	Include a sunset provision. The tax would have
to be reauthorized by the voters in fifteen years;
if it were not reauthorized, it would expire on
February 15, 2023.

Fiscal Impact

The current revenues generated from the Park
Development and Maintenance Tax of 1998 are
approximately $495,000 for fiscal year 2007/08. If this
measure is approved, the Park Development &
Maintenance Tax revenues at the new assessment
levels set forth in Ordinance No. 926, would generate an
estimated $750,000.

<impartialend>