<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE GG

MEASURE GG, the “Essential City Services Preservation and Protection
Measure”, proposes to raise revenues which may be used for any general
municipal purpose, including the funding of essential services such as fire and
other emergency response services, pothole repair, street and storm drain
maintenance, graffiti removal, on-duty police staffing, street lighting, park
maintenance, emergency reserves maintenance and other general city services, by
the establishment of a temporary 5-year one half of one percent (1/2%) general
transactions (sales) and use tax.

EXEMPTIONS: The proposed (1/2%) tax does not apply to purchases of
prescription medications nor does it apply to the purchase of grocery store food
items like milk, meat, fish, vegetables, fruit or products made out of any such
items, cereals, coffee, sugar, baby food, bread and other bakery products, nuts,
condiments, candy, juices, bottled water and the like.

COLLECTION METHOD: The (1/2%) transactions and use tax is paid in
addition to the existing sales tax and is collected at the same time and in much
the same manner as the existing sales tax. The proposed (1/2%) tax would add
approximately 50<z to a retail purchase of $100 and less for purchases under $100.

NON-RESIDENTS PAY: Non-El Monte residents share in paying the tax for
most over-the-counter retail purchases thereby helping to pay for their use of the
City’s infrastructure and other services.

OVERSIGHT COMMI1TEE: Measure GG also provides for the formation of a

“Transactions and Use Tax Fiscal Oversight Committee” to analyze and make
recommendations as to the annual expenditure of revenues generated by the tax.

REVENUE GENERATED: It is estimated that Measure GG has the potential
to generate approximately $4.4 million in revenue per year on average - funds
which may be used to rebuild currently depleted emergency reserves while also
preserving current infrastructure maintenance levels and other City service levels
without more severe maintenance and service level cutbacks.

APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS: Measure GG requires approval by a simple
majority of El Monte voters in order to be approved. A “Yes” vote is a vote in
favor of approving the measure while a “No” vote is a vote against the approval
of the measure.

SUNSET CLAUSE: The tax established under Measure GG is temporary and
expires automatically in 5 years. It can only be extended by the holding of a new
ballot measure election.


<impartialend>