<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition J proposes to raise revenue for the purpose of preserving funding for essential city
services by authorizing a sales tax of one-half of a cent within the City of El Cajon. The tax would
be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes, including the City's existing one-half
cent sales tax approved by voters in 2004. It would be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy a
transaction and use tax (i.e., a "sales") tax for general purposes at a rate of 0.25 percent (or any
multiple thereof) if the tax is approved by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in a
general municipal election. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will be adopted by ordinance
to become effective no sooner than April 1, 2009. By its terms, the sales tax would be eliminated
twenty (20) years following the effective date of the tax.

The revenues raised from the sales tax are not specified for a particular purpose, but will be
available to fund ongoing and essential governmental services, including police and fire
operations, recreational services, parks and building maintenance services, and other, general,
city services.

The sales tax increases will be subject to certain conditions, including a provision for independent
oversight, both in the collection of the tax and the appropriation of the tax revenues, by a citizen's
advisory committee, which shall report any findings to the community. Further, expenditure of the
funds will be subject to the City's annual independent audit.

Under the terms of the proposed ordinance and California law sales of property to be used
outside of the City of El Cajon, and which are delivered to the purchaser outside of the City, are
exempt from the tax. Motor vehicles, aircraft and marine vessels sold in the City of El Cajon, but
to non-City residents, are considered "delivered" outside the City of El Cajon so long as the
property is registered to an out-of-City address and certain other requirements are met.

<impartialend>