
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “P”

LEGAL IMPACT

Background. The City has imposed a Utility Users Tax (UUT) since 1991. The voters approved the UUT at a maximum rate of 6% in November of
1996. There are cross-references in the existing UUT to certain federal laws. Because of recent changes in those federal laws, some cellular telephone
companies are challenging in court similar UUT ordinances in other cities. They claim that these federal changes should, in effect, remove the local
UUT on most telephone calls. Also, new technologies for telephone and video services are evolving. These technologies didn’t exist at the time the
UUT was adopted and therefore were not included in the existing ordinance. As users move to the new technology, UUT revenue from telecommunications and video services will decline. Users who cannot, or do not choose to use the new technology will be taxed while others receiving the same
service through newer technology will not.

Effect, in substance, Measure P would do the following:

•	replace the existing telephone and video provisions of the UUT with new ones that would not be affected by changes in federal law and would
apply equally to all telecommunication and video services regardless of the technology used.

•	reduce the maximum rate of the tax from 6% to 5.75% on all taxed utility services (water, gas, electricity, telephone, cellular telephone, sewer,
cable television and wireless pay television).

•	clarify the City’s UUT collection and appeals procedures.

•	require annual outside expert audits to assure that the UUT has been properly collected and accounted for.

The existing exemption for low income residents would continue. Like the existing tax. the new tax would be a general tax, with all proceeds deposited
into the City's General Fund. It requires a simple majority vote to pass.

A "YES” vote is a vote to adopt the new UUT ordinance to replace the existing UUT.

A “NO" vote is a vote to reject the new UUT ordinance and keep the existing UUT.

FISCAL IMPACT

The legal and technology issues could reduce the City’s projected General Fund revenues by as much as $5 Million per year. The General Fund pays
for most of the City’s police, fire, animal control, public works, community and economic development financial and administrative services, and some
library and parks and recreation services. Some or all of these services could be affected by the lost revenue. Measure “P” would prevent the loss of

those revenues.

Measure “P” decrease in the tax rate from 6% to 5.75% is designed to offset any increase in tax revenue from recapturing the revenue already lost
because of new technologies that are not currently taxed. It is projected to result in a decrease of approximately $170,000 in total UUT revenue to the

City in the first year.

