<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE E

Measure E is a special parcel tax placed on the ballot by the
Orinda City Council. If adopted by City voters, the Measure would
authorize the City to continue the existing special library parcel tax, and
to adjust that tax from $27 to $39 per year per residential parcel or land
use equivalent. The proposed special parcel tax, if approved, could only
be used to pay for the Orinda Library’s operations and programs,
including the continuation of expanded hours of operation and services,
and for certain costs associated with collecting the tax.

Existing Law: California law authorizes a city to impose a
special tax, including a special parcel tax to fund library operations,
subject to certain limitations.

(1)	The revenue generated from a special tax may only be used for
the specific purposes for which the tax is adopted;

(2)	The revenue generated from the tax must be deposited in a
special fund;

(3)	Each year an annual report must be filed with the City Council
detailing the revenues and expenditures from the tax measure;
and

(4)	The special tax must be approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on it.

Effect of the Measure: Currently, the Orinda Library is funded
primarily by funds from Contra Costa County, the City of Orinda, and the
Friends of the Orinda Library. In 2001, the voters of the City of Orinda
approved a special tax measure in the amount of $27 per year per
residential parcel, or land use equivalent, for the purpose of expanding
the Library’s hours of operation and services. The County currently
provides funding for only 35 hours of Library operations per week. The

City provides additional funding, generated by the 2001 measure, to
allow the Library to remain open for a total of 60 hours per week.

The special parcel tax authorized by the 2001 measure expires
in July 2009. Unless the new proposed Measure or another special tax
is approved by the voters before July 2009, the City will no longer collect
a special library parcel tax, and the expanded hours of operation and
programs at the Orinda Library funded by the 2001 parcel tax would
likely be discontinued.

This Measure complies with the State law requirements noted
above. It requires that the generated tax revenue may only be used for
maintaining the Orinda Library’s existing hours and services, offsetting
utility costs, replacing worn and outdated books and materials, and
continuing existing library programs. The Measure also requires that the
revenue be deposited into an Orinda Library Parcel Tax Fund, and that
the City’s chief fiscal officer must file the mandated annual report with the
City Council each fiscal year.

For this Measure to take effect, it must be approved by two-thirds
of the voters voting on it.

<impartialend>