<impartial>



MEASURE R  IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY SEASIDE CITY ATTORNEY  


The City Council of the City of Seaside placed Measure R on the February 5, 2008 ballot to ask voters to consider an ordinance enacting a general transactions and use (sales) tax of one percent (1%) to be administered by the State Board of Equalization. The Seaside Vital City Services Measure R proposes to raise revenue for general purposes, including police and fire personnel, recreation programming, street and traffic improvements and other general services, for the City of Seaside. The one percent tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes. This is a local tax that will be collected and placed in the City of Seaside's General Fund. This tax cannot be taken away by the State of California or the County of Monterey.  The City of Seaside Vital City Services Measure R states that the one percent sales tax is to be used for City services such as hiring additional police officers and firefighters, purchasing breathing apparatuses and emergency radio communications equipment, improving 9-1-1 police and fire response times, fixing potholes, improving and maintaining City streets, reducing traffic congestion, expanding youth and senior programs and improving parks, increasing code enforcement, expanding anti-gang and drug enforcement programs, removing graffiti and blight, and other general City services. This sales tax would be a general tax; therefore the tax would go into the City’s General Fund and could be used for any legal municipal purpose.  California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy a transaction tax at a rate of 0.25 percent, or a multiple thereof, provided the tax is approved by a majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue. The proposed tax will increase the local sales tax rate in City of Seaside from the current 7.25% to 8.25%.  Measure R includes a requirement that the City of Seaside have published, independent annual audits available for public review that will specify how the funds raised by Measure R are spent for City Services.  By placing Measure R on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, which requires the voters to approve an ordinance which imposes a general tax. 



<impartialend>