<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

If approved by a 2/3 majority of the voters of the City of Sanger, ballot
measure S would approve City of Sanger Ordinance 1094. adding Article VI to Chapter
66 of the Sanger City Code to add a special retail transactions and use tax of 0.75% in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of said Code.

A Transactions and Use tax is imposed on the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of tangible personal property sold at retail within the City limits. The
taxes will be collected and administered by the State Board of Equalization. The
revenue from the sales and use tax will be deposited into a special fund designated
exclusively for public safety for police and fire protection and emergency 9-1-1
services.

The collection of the tax shall be administered through the State Board of
Equalization in the same manner as the general sales tax.

The proposed Ordinance provides that the revenues generated shall be paid
into a special fund to be used exclusively for public safety services, which are defined
as: obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police protection and fire
protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police and fire
protection personnel and related public safety services and capital expenses. None of
the tax revenues generated may be used for administrative salaries, other general fund
expenses or projects not a part of the Public Safety Measure Police and Fire
Expenditure Plan. The revenues are intended to supplement not replace existing
expenditure levels.

The propose Ordinance also requires a Citizen’s Oversight Committee to be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council, with
consultation with the Police Chief and Fire Chief. The Ordinance establishes term
limits for committee members and sets out their duties and responsibilities. The
committee shall review the expenditure of revenues generated and shall report at least
annually to the City Council.

If approved by a 2/3 majority of voters, the proposed Ordinance will become
effective 31 days following the election.

<impartialend>