<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE PC 

Measure “PC” appears on the ballot as a result of a voter initiative process
whereby the initiative proponents gathered signatures from registered voters
within the City of Pomona and qualified the placement of this temporary tax
increase measure to be presented to all of Pomona’s voters.

The City of Pomona, like other cities in Los Angeles County, imposes a general
use tax on residential and commercial utility accounts (Utility Users Tax). The
existing Utility Users Tax generates revenues that are used to provide public
services, such as police and fire protection, parks and recreation, library, public
works, and other city programs and services.

If adopted, Measure “PC” will amend the provisions of the Pomona City Code to
temporarily increase the existing nine percent (9%) Utility Users Tax by one
percent (1%). This will be a temporary two year and two month increase to fund
general city services. General city services can include the funding to hire
additional police officers, install speed humps in residential areas and repair
neighborhood streets and major roads and highways, continue efforts to fight
gangs and drugs by expanding anti-crime programs, and funding for improving
local parks. If approved, the additional funds generated by this Measure would
be placed in the City of Pomona’s general fund to be designated for specific uses
and programs by City Council resolution.

Measure “PC” exempts qualified disabled individuals and senior citizens 62 years
and older from the temporary tax increase. This Measure also requires an annual
independent audit of the funds generated and the expenditure of such funds.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “PC” supports imposing a temporary, two month and
two year, one percent (1%) Utility Users Tax increase to generate funds for
general city services, subject to the independent audit provisions of the Measure.
A “No” vote on Measure “PC” will maintain the current level of the Utility
Users Tax, and no additional revenues will be generated to continue or expand
existing public services.

<impartialend>