<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE MM

CITY OF FREMONT MEASURE MM

TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY (HOTEL)

TAX INCREASE

Measure MM seeks voter approval of a 2% increase in the
City of Fremont’s Transient Occupancy Tax rate. The City
has an existing ordinance that imposes a tax in the amount
of 8% of the rent charged to persons who stay at a hotel
within the Fremont city limits. This tax is called the transient occupancy tax (“TOT”). The TOT is assessed only
on people who stay in hotels, motels, or the like for periods of thirty days or less. The tax is paid by the hotel room
occupant directly to the hotel operator at the time the
occupant pays his or her hotel bill. Hotel operators hold
the collected taxes in trust for the benefit of the City and
remit the taxes monthly to the Director of Finance.

If this measure is approved by the electorate, the ordinance
will be modified to increase the TOT by 2% from the present 8% rate to 10%. Therefore, if this measure is
approved, a person who stays in a hotel within the City of
Fremont will pay 10% of the rent charged by the hotel
operator as a TOT. For example, a person staying one
night in a $100 hotel room would pay $110 rather than the
current $108. According to the City’s Finance Director, if
this measure is approved by the voters, it could result in
approximately $800,000 of additional revenue to the City
per year. All of the TOT revenues collected by the City are
used, and shall continue to be used, for City general fund
purposes.

The TOT is a general tax, and as such must be approved by
a simple majority of the voters voting in the election. The
proceeds of the tax, as a general tax, will be deposited in
the City’s general fund and used for general governmental
purposes, such as police and fire protection services, and
street and park maintenance.

A “yes” vote would approve an increase in the City’s TOT
by 2%.

A “no” vote would reject the proposed 2% increase in the
City’s TOT.

<impartial>