<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

This Measure is submitted to the voters by the Glendale
City Council to ratify and update the City’s existing
Utilities Users Tax (“UUT”), so that it can be applied
equally to both older telephone technology and to newer
telecommunications technology, while reducing the tax
rate from 7% to 6.5%, and continuing to exempt low-
income seniors and disabled persons.

A UUT is a tax levied on each user of a telephone within
the City’s boundaries. Since 1969, the City has imposed
a telephone users’ tax on persons using telephone
service in the City. The tax is based on the telephone
user’s monthly usage, collected by the telephone provider
and conveyed to the City. The current tax rate is 7% of the
charges billed. This Measure will reduce the tax rate for
telephone usage to 6.5%.

In past years, Glendale, and most California cities
with telephone UUTs, relied on federal law definitions
to describe which specific telephone services are covered
by the UUT. These definitions have been changed
by the federal government and no longer reflect the
City’s original intent. Telephone companies have also
introduced new technology and added many other new
services and features. This Measure applies to existing
landline, including long distance, wireless and other
phone technology.

The Utility Users’ Tax provides just over $8 million of the City’s
general fund revenue, or approximately 5% of the City’s
general fund operating budget, which is used primarily for
provision of the City’s basic services such as police,
fire, emergency medical services, parks, recreation,
libraries and other general services.

This Measure would:

•	Reduce the current tax rate of 7% to 6.5% for
telecommunications services. The tax applies
to all telephone services regardless of the
technology used. Voter approval is required for
any future tax increase.

® Ratify an ordinance previously adopted by
the Glendale City Council, which removes
references to the federal law definitions from
the City’s telephone UUT and replaces new
definitions that address new technology. The
new language treats all telephone customers the
same for local tax purposes.

•	Add a provision to allow for annual audits to
confirm the tax is properly collected and spent
by the City according to the requirements of
this Measure and other laws. The audit will be
performed by a qualified independent third
party. The results of these audits will be available
to the public.

This Measure would not:

Apply to access to the internet, games and similar products.

•	Affect the current UUT on electricity, gas, and
water.

•	Change existing exemptions for low-income seniors
and disabled persons.

This Measure requires approval of a majority of voters.
A “yes” vote for this Measure will reduce the tax and
approve the modifications described above. A "no” vote
against this Measure will leave in place the City’s existing
UUT ordinance.

<impartialend>