<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
(Cal. Elections Code § 9280)

CITY OF RANCHO CORDOVA MEASURE B

Prepared by Rancho Cordova City Attorney

This City Council-proposed Measure B would continue the City's
existing Utility Users Tax (UUT) at the current tax rate. The UUT
is a tax assessed on users of electricity, gas, cable, sewer and
telecommunications at a rate of 2.5%. Measure B would update
the tax to .apply the same tax rate to wireless and other new technologies that is currently applied to traditional landline telephones.
Measure B would also eliminate uncertainty about the applicability of the City's current long distance service.

Measure B does riot propose any tax on internet access, including DSL and cable modem lines. It also does not tax internet services, such as purchases or downloads of music, books, games,
etc.

Upon its incorporation in July 2003, the. City adopted
Sacramento's UUT ordinance. The tax generates approximately
$2 million in general fund revenues annually for the City, making
it the City’s fourth largest revenue source. .

When the UUT was initially adopted, it followed the pattern of
nearly all other UUT ordinances in. California. The telecommunications services subject to the UUT were determined by reference
to definitions in Federal tax law. The City's UUT was applied in a
similar manner as the Federal Excise Tax (FET). The Federal
government has recently stopped applying the FET to nearly all
telephone communication services, except local exchange services. This interpretation of the FET raises questions about the
applicability of the City's current UUT ordinance to long distance
telephone calls. Measure B would update the City's UUT by eliminating the references to the Federal Excise Tax, thus clearly
applying the tax to long distance telephone calls.

As written and interpreted by the County of Sacramento, the
City's current UUT ordinance’ also does not apply to wireless communications and other technologies. Measure B would modernize the UUT by expanding the scope of communications services
the tax covers to include wireless communications, private communication service, paging and voice over internet,
and other anticipated technologies. This means that under
Measure B, users of these and other new technologies will pay the
same 2.5% UUT that users of traditional landline telephones, and
others UUT taxpayers now pay. 

Measure B also makes a number of non-substantive changes to
clarify the existing UUT ordinance.

The City's UUT is currently a general tax, which means that revenues from it are deposited in the City’s general fund to be used
for any municipal services and general government purposes.
Measure B would change the. UUT from a general tax to a special
tax and restrict the City's use of UUT revenues to police services,
maintenance of and improvements to city streets, sidewalks, and
landscaping, graffiti removal, and code enforcement.

As a special tax, Measure B would only become effective. If
approved by two-thirds of voters casting a vote on the. Measure at
the election. If Measure B is approved, any future increases to the
UUT would only become effective if approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting at such an election.

<impartialend>