<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “A”
UTILITY USERS TAX

Measure “A”, is submitted to the voters by the Arcadia City
Council to clarify and update the City’s current Utility Users Tax
(“UUT”) Ordinance, so that it can be applied equally both to
older telephone technology and to newer telecommunications
technology at the current tax rate of 5%.

Background:

Residents of Arcadia have paid the UUT on charges for telephone
services since 1970. UUT revenues are paid into the City’s
General Fund, which is allocated by the City Council through the
annual budget for general city services, such as police and fire
protection, paramedic services, library services and recreational
programs.

In past years, the City of Arcadia, like most cities with UUT’s,
relied upon Federal law to determine which telephone services
were taxable and which were not. Therefore, references to the
Federal law were included in their local ordinances. However,
telephone technology has changed greatly since 1970, and is
expected to continue changing at a rapid pace. As a result,
certain references to Federal law in the City’s UUT ordinance, as
well as other terms and definitions in the ordinance, have become
outdated and unable to address modern technologies.

The Measure:

Measure “A” would adopt an ordinance to remove outdated
references to Federal law from the UUT ordinance. The measure would also replace older terms and definitions with modem
language to address new technologies and to treat all telephone
customers the same for local tax purposes, whether they use
traditional land-line service, cellular/wireless service, or cutting
edge services such as Internet phone or text messaging. The
measure would also provide language intended to address forms
of telephone service that have yet to be invented, to ensure equal
taxation in the future.

Measure “A” maintains the tax rate for the UUT at the current
amount of 5% for all telephone services regardless of the technology used. The City Council can lower the telephone tax rate,
but may not raise it without voter approval.

Measure “A” maintains existing exemptions for low-income
and disabled residents and, in fact, updates the low-income
exemption to incorporate modern definitions and standards.
The Council may expand these exemptions, but may not reduce
them without voter approval.

Measure “A” requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes”
vote for Measure “A” will approve the updates described above;
a “no” vote against Measure “A” will leave in place the City’s
existing Utility Users Tax Ordinance without the above-described
updates.

<impartialend>