IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Measure “C", if approved by a majority of the voters, would
eliminate or reduce the Community Facilities District (“CFO") tax
currently imposed on some Perris properties, and establish a citywide
parcel tax to help defray the cost of general city services, including fire
protection and law enforcement, which equals about 60% of the General
Fund budget.

Due to the global recession, the City's major General Fund
revenue sources, such as property and sales tax, building fees and
permits, and interest earnings, have sharply declined. General Fund
revenue is approximately 20% less than it was two years ago. or a $6
million decrease.

To offset the drop in revenue, the City has instituted salary
freezes, layoffs of temporary employees, unpaid furloughs, and other
measures. The number of police patrol hours have also been reduced
from the amount budgeted.

Despite spending cuts, the City has had to draw from its
reserve fund to pay operational expenses. It is estimated that the amount
taken from reserves will be $1 million from the 2008/2009 budget, $4.7
million from the 2009/2010 budget, and $5.4 million from the 2010/2011
budget. It is projected that reserves could be entirely depleted by
2011/2012. The City Council unanimously voted to place Measure “C" on
the ballot after finding that a fiscal emergency exists in the City due to the
recession.

The amount of the parcel tax would vary based on use of the
property. The maximum rate for single-family residences would be
$135.88/year. For multi-family residential property, the maximum rate
would be $135.88/year per dwelling unit. For non-residential (e.g.,
commercial, industrial) properties, the maximum rate would be $543.52
per acre.

Residents who currently pay a Public Safety CFD tax will see
that tax eliminated or greatly reduced if Measure “C” is approved. For
example, residents in the North Perris Public Safety CFD, which includes
most of North Perris, are currently paying approximately $287 per year
specifically to fund police and fire services in North Perris, if Measure C
is approved North Perris Public Safety CFD tax will be reduced to zero.

Similarly, residents in the South Perris Community Facilities
District (“CFD"), which generally includes residents of new developments
in South Perris since 2006, are currently paying approximately $325 per
year to fund police and fire services, as well as park maintenance. If
Measured’ is approved, South Perris CFD residents will only pay about
$45 per year for park service.

To receive a reduction, CFD residents must be current on their
obligations to pay the Measure “C” parcel tax. After subtracting the
revenue loss by reductions to CFD residents, Measure “C" will create an
annual revenue increase of about $2 million citywide.

Measure “C” is a companion measure to Measure “D".
Although Measure C would establish revenue for the General Fund,
Measure “D” states the intent that the priority for use of these funds shall
be for “fire protection, paramedic services, law enforcement, gang
suppression, crime and drug intervention, local job creation and
retention, and graffiti removal."