<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE PC


Measure PC is submitted to the voters by the Pomona City Council to clarify and
update the City’s current Utility Users Tax (“UUT”) Ordinance, so that the
Ordinance can be applied equally to new telecommunications technology and
older telephone technology at the current tax rate of 9%. Measure PC does not
increase the current UUT tax rate.

Background:

Residents of Pomona have paid the UUT on charges for telephone services since
1969. UUT revenues are paid into the City’s General Fund, which funds general
city services, such as police and fire protection, library services, parks and
recreational programs. The City’s UUT as applied to telephone services - also
known as the “Telephone Users’ Tax” - currently generates $6.25 million in
annual revenues.

In past years, the City of Pomona, like most cities with UUT ordinances,
referenced Federal law in its UUT Ordinance to determine which telephone
services were taxable and which were not. However, telephone technology has
changed greatly since 1969. As a result, certain references to Federal law in the
City’s UUT ordinance, as well as other terms and definitions in the ordinance,
have become outdated and do not address modern technologies.

Some cities have become the target of litigation by telephone service providers
due to the reference to Federal law in their UUT ordinances. As a result of these
cases other cities, like Pomona, could be the target of similar litigation. The
purpose of this Measure is to keep the City of Pomona from potential litigation
and for the City to preserve its existing UUT revenues. This Measure does not
increase the UUT tax rate.

The Measure:

Measure PC would adopt an ordinance to remove outdated references to
Federal law from the UUT ordinance. The Measure would replace older terms
and definitions with modern language to address new technologies and treats all
telephone customers the same for local tax purposes, whether they use
traditional land-line service, cellular/wireless service, or cutting-edge services
such as Voice-over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and text messaging.

Measure PC maintains the tax rate for the UUT at the current rate of 9% for all
telephone services regardless of the technology used.

Measure PC requires approval by a majority of voters. A “yes” vote for Measure
PC will approve the updates described above. A “no” vote against Measure PC
will keep in place the City’s existing UUT Ordinance without the updates
described above.

<impartialend>