<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE A

Measure A is proposed by the Redondo Beach City
Council to continue and update the City’s existing
Utilities Users Tax (“UUT”), so that it can be applied
equally to both older telephone technology and to newer
telecommunications technology at the current tax rate of
4.75%, while continuing to exempt low income seniors
and disabled persons.

Background. The UUT is levied on utility users in the City.
Since 1969 the City has imposed the UUT on telephone
service. The current rate of the UUT is 4.75%. Measure
A will not increase the tax rate. UUT revenues are paid
into the City’s general fund to finance such services as
911 response, police, fire, paramedics, street repairs,
parks, libraries, and local ocean and beach pollution
control programs.

The City’s UUT ordinance, like those of most California
cities with telephone UUTs, referred to federal law
definitions to describe the telephone services covered
by the UUT. These definitions have been changed by
the federal government and no longer reflect the City’s
original intent.

In addition, telephone technology has changed greatly.
Telephone companies have introduced cell phone
service and many other new services and features. It
is expected that telephone companies will continue to
develop new forms of telecommunications technology
in the future.

The Measure. The measure would replace older definitions
to address new technologies and to treat all phone
customers the same for local tax purposes, whether they
use traditional wireline phones, cell phones, or some new
form of telephone service invented in the future.

Measure A would not apply to internet access charges or
internet content such as DSL internet connection fees,
internet streamlining of broadcast audio and video and
digital downloads of books, music, ringtones, games and
similar digital products.

Measure A does not increase the current UUT rate
of 4.75%. If it is approved the UUT would apply to all
telephone services regardless of the technology used.
Voter approval is required for any future increase in the
rate or the scope of services subject to the UUT.

Measure A maintains existing exemptions for low-income
seniors and disabled persons.

Measure A also requires annual audits to confirm the
tax is properly collected and spent according to the

requirements of Measure A and other laws. Audit reports
will be available to the public.

Measure A requires approval of a majority of voters. A
“yes” vote for Measure A is a vote in favor of adopting the
amended UUT ordinance. A “no” vote against Measure
A will reject the proposed amendments to the UUT
Ordinance, and continue the UUT in its present form.

<impartialend>