<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE TR


Measure TR is submitted to the voters by the Pico Rivera City Council in order
to decrease the current Utility Users Tax (“UUT”) from 5% to 4.5% and to
clarify and update the UUT Ordinance, so that the Ordinance can be applied
equally to new telecommunications technology and older telephone technology.

Background:

Currently the UUT of the City of Pico Rivera is set at 5%. This Measure will
provide an across-the-board reduction in all UUT charges down to 4.5%.
Residents of Pico Rivera have paid the UUT on charges for telephone
communication services, video services, and gas and electricity usage. UUT
revenues are paid into the City’s General Fund, which funds general city services,
such as police and fire protection, library services, parks and recreational
programs. The City’s UUT currently generates about 4 million for the General
Fund, of which about 2 million is derived from taxable telecommunication
services.

In past years, the City of Pico Rivera, like most cities with UUT ordinances,
referenced Federal law in its UUT Ordinance to determine which telephone
services were taxable and which were not. However, telephone technology has
significantly changed since the City’s adoption of the current UUT Ordinance.
As a result, certain references to Federal law in the City’s UUT ordinance, as
well as other terms and definitions in the ordinance, have become outdated and
do not address modern technologies.

Some cities have become the target of litigation by telephone service providers
due to the reference to Federal law in their UUT ordinances. As a result of these
cases, other cities, like Pico Rivera, could be the target of similar litigation. The
purpose of this Measure is to keep the City of Pico Rivera from potential
litigation and for the City to preserve its existing UUT revenues.

The Measure:

Measure TR is not a tax increase measure, but a tax reduction measure which
will reduce the UUT from the current rate of 5% down to 4.5%. Measure TR
would adopt an ordinance to remove outdated references to Federal law from
the UUT ordinance. The Measure would replace older terms and definitions
with modern language to address new technologies and treat all telephone
customers the same for local tax purposes, whether they use traditional
“land-line” service, cellular/wireless service, or cutting-edge services such as
Voice-over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and text messaging.

Measure TR requires approval by a majority of voters. A “YES” vote for
Measure TR will approve a tax reduction and provide the update as described
above. A “NO” vote against Measure TR will not reduce the UUT and will keep
in place the City’s existing UUT Ordinance without the updates described.

<impartialend>