<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The City Council of the City of Desert Hot Springs -has placed
Measure “A” on the May 13, 2009 ballot to ask voters to consider
increasing the existing Utility Users Tax (“UUT”) and extending it for an
additional eleven (IT) years. Measure “A" would only become effective if
approved by two-thirds of voters casting a vote on the Measure at the
election.

The UUT was originally approved by popular vote in 2000 and
is codified in Chapter 35 of the Desert Hot Springs Municipal Code. As
approved, the tax was set at five percent (5%) of the cost of
telecommunications, water, sewer, electric, gas, and cable utility
services. Utility service providers collect the tax as part of the monthly
service bill and remit the proceeds to the City. As a special tax, the
revenue from the UUT is split evenly into two special funds that may be
used only for debt reduction and public safety services. The UUT will
expire on June 30,2010.

If approved, Measure “A" would increase the existing UUT
from 5% to 7% on all taxed services and extend the existing UUT for an
additional eleven years, to June 30, 2020, at which time it would
terminate automatically, unless extended by the voters of Desert Hot
Springs.

The Measure will also amend the tax on telecommunications
services to remove an exemption in Section 35.091(B) for telephone
calls that are exempt from the Federal Excise Tax (“FET"). Since the
initial approval of the UUT, the Internal Revenue Service has altered how

it interprets the FET, expanding the scope of telephone calls that are
exempt. That revision to the, if incorporated into the UUT, would
result in the UUT not being applied to telephone calls that were intended
to be taxed when the UUT was initially approved. The elimination of the exemption will ensure that the IRS revision and future changes to the
FET will not affect the telephone services subject to the UUT.

Currently, the UUT generates approximately $1.75 million
annually. The rate Increase is expected to generate an additional
$700,000 per year, all of which will be used only for public safety. Lewis
Partners, after conducting a management audit in the Spring of 2007,
recommends that a city the size of Desert Hot Springs have 38-42 sworn
police officers. The City presently has 29, If Measure “A” is not approved,
the City will have to identify another funding source to increase the
numBer of officers to the recommended level.

<impartialend>