<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

Measure T, if passed, would establish a hotel visitor tax,
known as a Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”), in the City
so that persons who stay in hotels or motels in the City
for 30 days or less will pay a 10 percent (10%) TOT. Your
“yes” vote means that the City’s Municipal Code would
be amended to add a TOT. Your “no” vote means there
would be no change to the current law and persons who
stay in a hotel or motel in the City will not be taxed. The
TOT is not imposed on City residents, unless they stay in
a hotel or motel in the City.

Most California cities impose a TOT upon persons staying
in hotels and motels within their boundaries. TOT rates
vary by city including, for example, Azusa-7 1/2%, Baldwin
Park-10%, Los Angeles-14%, and Anaheim-15%. This
measure would require that all TOT collected be allocated
to the City’s General Fund. The revenue would be used
to fund general city services, including: police, fire, street
maintenance, parks, recreation, libraries, senior services
and other capital improvements or related items.

According to the City’s Finance Department, it is estimated
that if the TOT is enacted, during the first five years, the
following revenue could potentially be generated for the
City’s General Fund: Approximately $211,600 in Year 1;
$250,160 in Year 2; $290,080 in Year 3; $374,490 in Year
4; and $416,250 in Year 5. The City’s Finance Department
also estimates that the average guest will spent $50 per
day in the local business community, thereby generating
approximately $2 million per year to City businesses. The
City has not studied the staff cost of administering the
TOT, but according to the City’s Finance Department, the
administration cost is likely insignificant.

Under Proposition 218, enacted by the voters in 1996, a tax
imposed for general purposes is a general tax and requires
majority approval of the voters. Since this measure, which
can only be amended by the voters in the future, places the
TOT collected into the General Fund and uses those funds
for general City purposes, this measure requires approval
from a majority of the voters to take effect.

<impartialend>