<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U
City Of Vallejo
Communication Users Tax

Measure U, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize an
amendment to the Vallejo Municipal Code by adding Chapter 3.13 with
respect to a Communication Users’ Tax, commonly referred to as a
Utility Users Tax (“UUT”).

Since 1969, the City has collected a UUT on telecommunication, gas,
electricity, and video services. The UUT is a general tax. All revenue
generated goes into the City’s General Fund to provide essential government
services including, but not limited to: police, fire, emergency medical
response, street repair and other City services. The Telecommunication
and Video UUT generates approximately $5.2 million annually.

The City of Vallejo, like most California cities with UUT ordinances,
originally determined which telecommunication services would be
subject to the UUT by referencing definitions in federal law. Recent
interpretations of those federal law definitions have changed and
challenges to the collection of a UUT in federal and state courts have
created uncertainty about the application and reach of the City’s UUT.

Measure U would:

• Replace older definitions of telecommunications and video,
and would treat users of such services in a uniform and equitable
manner, regardless of the means of transmission or technology
used. As a result, private communication services (e.g.,T-1), voice
over internet (VoIP), paging, and text messaging, would be treated
the same as traditional telephone services.

•	Reduce the tax rate from 7.5% to 7.3% for all communication
services, regardless of technology.

•	It would not apply to charges for internet services such as
e-mail, and would specifically exclude digital downloads like
music, games, and ringtones. Federal law prohibits any local tax
on “internet access" including DSL and cable modem.

•	Authorizes administrative tools for addressing communication
taxation issues including administrative rulings for the purpose of
interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment,
collection and remittance of the UUT.

•	Require an annual independent audit and verification to confirm
the UUT is being properly collected, remitted and spent.

The UUT would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and certain
service charges, and would be collected by the service provider. As
a result of updating the definitions or future changes to federal law,
customers using emerging technologies for communications services
will be subject to the UUT in the same way as are customers using
current communication technologies (e.g., “landlines”).

Measure U requires approval of a majority of the voters. A “Yes" vote for
Measure U will approve the updates described above, slightly reduce
the tax rate, and avoid potential court rulings that could preclude the
City from continuing to collect the UUT for certain telecommunication
and video services. A “No” vote against Measure U will leave in place
the City’s existing UUT ordinance, without update ora decrease in the
tax rate, and at risk from adverse court rulings.

<impartialend>