<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY OF ROCKLIN ATTORNEY

Effect of Measure on Existing Law

Under current law, the Rocklin Park Maintenance and
Development Act of 1998 levies an annual special tax on
all residential parcels within the City in the amount of
$30 per year for each single-family dwelling. The
assessment for each multi-family dwelling
(condominiums, duplexes, triplexes, and apartments)
mobile home units, and vacant residential lots ranges
from $10 to $30 per year. The current tax has a 10 year
sunset provision and will expire in June of 2009. The tax levy amounts have been unchanged over the term of the Rocklin Park Maintenance and Development Act of
1998.

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on the measure, would reenact the annual special
tax for Park Maintenance and Development and
continue this existing special tax in the same amounts
previously established. The tax would be unchanged
from the current amounts which levy on residential
properties a base amount of $30 per year for each
single-family dwelling. Seniors age 62 and over are
eligible for a discounted rate of $10 per year which is
also unchanged from the existing tax. The tax would be
levied and collected in the same manner as the current
Park Maintenance and Development annual special tax.
The complete table of tax rates proposed to be
readopted can be found at Section 3.34.030 of the
Rocklin Municipal Code.

Operation of Measure

The measure would:

• Continue the current Park Development and
Maintenance annual special tax. The amount to
be levied would remain the same at $30 per
year per single-family residence. The assessment for each multi-family dwelling
(condominiums, duplexes, triplexes, and
apartments) mobile home units, and vacant
residential lots would also remain the same,
which amounts range from $10 to $30 per year.

•	include a senior discount program for eligible
residents age 62 and over providing for a
discounted rate of $10 per year which is
unchanged from the existing tax.

•	Prohibit the City Council from increasing the tax
rate without voter approval.

•	Require the special tax revenues to be used
only for park development and maintenance

purposes.

•	include a sunset provision. The tax would have
to be reauthorized by the voters in ten years; if it
were not reauthorized, it would expire on June
30, 2019.

Fiscal Impact

The current revenues generated from the Park
Development and Maintenance Tax of 1998 are
approximately $498,000 for fiscal year 2008/09. Since
the proposed special tax rates are unchanged from
existing rates, if this measure is approved, the Park
Development & Maintenance Tax revenues would
continue to generate approximately $498,000 per year.

<impartialend>