

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “G”

Since 1970 the City of Palm Springs has imposed a telephone users’ tax,
paid by telephone customers on their telephone bills. Measure “G” would
reduce the current 5% tax rate to 4.5%; maintain current exemptions; and
update the definitions to apply to all intrastate, interstate, and
international communications regardless of the technology used to
provide such services. Thus, it would treat users of communication
services in a uniform and equitable manner, regardless of the means of
transmission or technology used.

The City’s telephone users' tax ordinance, like many similar tax
ordinances throughout the state, was written before the introduction of
new communications technologies, including cellular phone service.
The current ordinance was also written before several changes occurred
to federal law, including the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act of
2000 and recent changes in the IRS interpretation of the federal excise
tax on long distance service. Taxes imposed by other California cities
that contain language similar to that in the City’s existing ordinance have
been the subject of legal disputes. This measure would remove outdated
ordinance language that is the subject of lawsuits in other jurisdictions
and protect the City’s existing tax revenues from such legal challenges.

Like the existing telephone users’ tax, the updated telephone users’ tax
under Measure “G” would be a general tax, with its proceeds deposited
into the City’s general fund. The general fund is available to the City for all
of its programs, including police, fire, and street maintenance, among
other services. The telephone users’ tax will not be increased without a
vote of the City’s voters. The measure has no effect on the existing utility
user tax applied to electrical and natural gas services. The measure
does not apply to charges for internet services, including digital
downloads, such as books, ringtones, games, and similar products.

Measure “G” also proposes to replace the existing emergency response
fee of the City with an access line tax. The existing emergency response
fee partially funds the City’s share of the costs associated with the
constructing, equipping, and operating an emergency communication
system to provide emergency call receiving and dispatching services
(the 911 system) and can be increased at any time by the City Council.
The access line tax that would replace the emergency response fee
would be at the same monthly rates as the current emergency response
fee of $1.13 per access line and $8.48 per trunk line, subject to an annual
cost of living adjustment, and can not otherwise be increased without a
vote of the City's voters. The access line tax would also be a general tax
and its revenues would be available to fund any general fund program
including police, fire, and street maintenance services as well as the
City's share of the emergency communication system.

Voter approval of Measure "G” would confirm the City's continued and
future collection of these revenue sources. Measure G will be adopted if
it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.