<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE TOT

Ballot Measure TOT seeks approval of an ordinance that will increase the City’s
existing 10% transient occupancy tax by 2% so that the tax rate will be 12%. The
transient occupancy tax is paid only by persons who stay at hotels in the City for
thirty calendar days or less and is not paid by property owners.

The revenues from the transient occupancy tax are not designated for any
particular purpose. These revenues are placed in the City’s general fund and are
used for general City functions, such as police protection, and street and park
maintenance and repairs. If approved, the revenues from the 2% increase of the
transient occupancy tax will be retained by the City for these purposes and will
not be rebated to any hotel operator, because the hotel rebate program does not
apply to revenues from any increase of the rate of the transient occupancy tax
above 10%.

The City last adjusted the rate of the transient occupancy tax in 1991. That year,
the City Council adopted an ordinance increasing the amount of the tax from 6%
to 10% of the rent charged by the hotel operator. To comply with subsequent
decisions of the California Supreme Court, in 2001, the City Council submitted a
measure to the Rancho Palos Verdes voters, who ratified the 10% tax rate.

If adopted, this measure would increase the rate of the City’s transient
occupancy tax from 10% to 12%. This measure also would enable the City
Council to adjust the tax to any rate that is less than or equal to 12%, or to repeal
the tax, without further voter approval.

If adopted, this Measure would not allow the City Council to increase the rate of
the transient occupancy tax in excess of 12% without voter approval.

Measure TOT must be approved by a majority of the votes cast, in order for the
ordinance increasing the rate of the transient occupancy tax by 2% to become
law.

A “yes” vote on Measure TOT will enact an ordinance that will increase the rate
of the City’s transient occupancy tax to 12%. A “no” vote will maintain the City’s
transient occupancy tax at the existing rate of 10%.

<impartialend>