<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION A

On January 13, 2009, the City Council of the City of Chula Vista authorized the City
Manager to implement a budget reduction plan to mitigate projected budget shortfalls. In
order to reduce the impacts of these reductions, the City Council adopted the City
Manager’s proposed “Chula Vista Fiscal Health Plan" (the "Plan"). One element of the Plan
is to submit to the voters for consideration a Transaction and Use Tax. On January 20,
2009 the City Council approved submitting Proposition A to the voters. Proposition A
proposes to amend the City’s Municipal Code by adding Chapter 3.38, "Transaction and
Use Tax” (commonly referred to as a “sales tax”). The ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

Pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9, if approved by a
majority of the voters voting in the election, the subject ordinance would impose a sales tax
at the rate of one percent (1.00%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold in the City. The ordinance would also impose a use tax on
the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property produced
from any retailer at the rate of 1.00% of the sales price of the property. The ordinance
states that the term for the sales tax shall be ten (10) years, commencing on October 1,
2009, the "Operative Date" of the ordinance.

The sales tax rate currently applied in the City is 7.75%. This includes a combined
statewide amount of 7.25%, and a San Diego County tax of 0.50%. Pursuant to California
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251.1, the combined rate of all taxes imposed in any
county may not exceed 2.00%. The tax would be paid in addition to the existing sales tax
and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as the existing sales tax.

State law provides a variety of exemptions to the sales and use tax, including, but not
limited to, food products, health related items, gas, electricity and water, and interstate
sales. Regarding the allocation of sales and use taxes of a sale or lease of a vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft, in these types of transactions, the tax is charged and allocated based on
the location in which the property will be registered.

The proposed tax would be a "general tax,” the revenues from the tax would go into the
City's general fund and could be used for any legal municipal purpose. The City would not
be legally bound in any way to use the tax revenues for any special purpose or for any
particular service, facility or program.

Financial reports summarizing revenues generated by the tax shall be presented to the
Mayor and City Council on a quarterly basis.

A “yes" vote would authorize the City to collect the tax.

A “no” vote would not authorize the City to collect the tax.

<impartialend>