<impartial>


Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
Summary: Measure B is proposed by the Cupertino City Council to update the City's existing Utility Users Tax ("UUT") language to be consistent with current practice. The current tax rate of 2.4% will remain the same and the senior citizen exemption for Cupertino residents age 65 or older will continue. The proceeds of the UUT can only be spent on City services and cannot be taken away by the State.
Background: The UUT is levied on utility users in the City. The City has imposed the UUT on telecommunication services since 1990. Measure B will not increase the current rate of 2.4%. UUT revenues are paid into the City's general fund to finance such services as neighborhood police patrols and other public safety programs, library services, support for local schools, maintenance of City streets, open space and park programs and senior programs.
The City's UUT ordinance, like those of most California cities with telecommunication UUTs, referred to federal law to define and describe the telecommunication services covered by the UUT. These definitions have been revised by the federal government and telecommunication technology has changed significantly.
Measure: The measure would replace the older definitions of telecommunication services so that the language is consistent with current practice.
Measure B would not apply to charges for internet access or internet content or to private telecommunication services.
Measure B does not increase the current UUT rate of 2.4%. Voter approval would be required for any increase in the rate or the scope of services subject to the UUT in the future.
Measure B maintains the existing senior citizen exemption for Cupertino residents age 65 years or older.
Measure B also requires annual audits to confirm the tax is properly collected and spent according to the requirements of Measure B and other laws. Audit reports will be available to the public.
Measure B requires approval of a majority of voters. A "yes" vote for Measure B is a vote in favor of adopting the amended UUT ordinance. A "no" vote against Measure B will reject the proposed amendments to the UUT Ordinance, and continue the UUT in its present form.

<impartialend>