<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE UU

The Redondo Beach City Council placed Measure UU on the ballot to seek
voter approval for an amendment to the existing Telephone, Gas, Electricity,
Water, and Video Users’ Tax (“UUT”).

Background. State law permits cities to raise revenue by imposing taxes on the
use of certain utilities. Since 1969, the City of Redondo Beach has collected
Utility Users Tax on the use of telephone, natural gas, electricity, water, and
video utility services in the City. Most residents and nearly all businesses in the
City pay the UUT, which is currently 4.75% of the amount that a user pays for
each service. Under current law, utilities used in conducting the business of a
utility are excluded from this tax.

The Measure. Measure UU would eliminate the UUT exclusion for natural gas
used in conducting the business of a utility. The measure also amends the
method of calculating the tax for any affected utility.

Measure UU has no direct effect on the taxes of individual City residents or
households, or on the taxes of City businesses, other than a utility that uses gas in
conducting utility business.

Measure UU would raise revenue to pay for general governmental services in the
City of Redondo Beach. Revenue from the Measure will go to the City’s General
Fund and may be used for any governmental purpose.

The new revenue measure has been approved by the City Council. If approved by
a majority of the voters voting on the measure, Measure UU would go into effect
10 days after the Redondo Beach City Council declares the results of the

November 3, 2009 election.

As with existing revenue from the Utility Users’ Tax, new revenue from this
Measure would be subject to annual audit. The City’s independent auditors will
annually verily that the Utility Users’ Tax is applied, collected, and paid in

accordance with the law’s requirements.

Measure UU does not increase the current UUT rate of 4.75%.

Measure UU maintains existing exemptions for low-income seniors and disabled

persons.

Any future new taxes or changes to the Utility Users’ Tax rate would require
voter approval.

A “Yes” vote on Measure UU would eliminate the UUT exclusion for natural
gas used in conducting the business of a utility. A “No” vote is a vote in favor of
maintaining the exclusion.


<impartialend>