<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Measure J presents the "Pacific Grove Library Funding Measure". This ballot measure submits to the voters an ordinance to create a
Special Parcel Tax to benefit the Pacific Grove Public Library. If approved, this measure would, for a ten-year term, raise revenue
solely dedicated to staff, provide, maintain and improve service and materials at the Pacific Grove Public Library.

The City of Pacific Grove is authorized by state law to impose qualified special taxes on property upon approval by two-thirds (2/3)
of the electors casting ballots. This tax must apply to all affected property owners. It cannot be an ad valorem tax on property. It
is not a transaction tax. It is not a tax on the sale of property.

The City of Pacific Grove currently does not levy a parcel tax. If approved, this measure creates an annual tax of ninety six dollars
($96) per single-family residence, seventy five dollars ($75) per multi-family unit, and ninety six dollars ($96) for all other property,
including commercial, industrial, and public utility property. A parcel is any unit of real estate within Pacific Grove as established by
the Monterey County Assessor. Tax is assessed based upon parcel ownership on July 1 of each year.

Funds collected must be deposited into a special fund. Money is limited in use, and can be expended only for the Pacific Grove
Public Library. This can pay costs of personnel, utilities, materials, contract services and other items beneficial to library programs,
services, facilities and assets. Proceeds may also be used to audit Library expenses.

The Pacific Grove Library Funding Measure requires the Pacific Grove Library Board, created by Article 26 of the City Charter, to
ensure revenue and spending is limited to approved programs. The Library Board will annually audit funds collected and expended.

The Pacific Grove Library Funding Measure includes a low income household exemption that exempts qualified residential units from
the Parcel Tax.

Tax rates allowed by this Measure are maximum rates. The City Council may suspend, reduce or eliminate the tax when sufficient
revenues are available to balance the City Budget and provide for Library services and programs. Each year the City Council may
increase rates based upon cost of living increases shown on the Consumer Price Index (CPI), but the annual adjustment is limited to
five percent (5%). Otherwise, the tax rate cannot be increased without further voter approval.

The parcel tax authorized by this Measure has a sunset date; it can be collected for only a period of ten years.

The City Council put this Measure on the ballot by unanimous vote. The Council separately declared, by unanimous vote, that a
financial emergency exists and immediate and urgent enactment of this Measure is needed to preserve the Pacific Grove Public
Library.

A "YES" vote shall authorize the Pacific Grove Library Funding Measure Special Parcel Tax. A "NO" vote shall reject the Special
Parcel Tax.

<impartialend>