<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE C

[Carson Utility Users’ Tax Ballot Measure]

Measure C, if approved by the voters, would enact in Carson a Utility Users’ Tax (“UUT”) of two
percent (2%), and authorize collection of the UUT by utility providers. The UUT would apply
only to electric and natural gas utilities. No UUT shall be collected for water, telephone, cable,
and cellular phone utilities.

The UUT is estimated to raise some $9 million annually for the city of Carson, with 80% (or
$7.2 million) generated from commercial and industrial natural gas and electricity consumers.
The average cost to city residents is estimated to be $2.50 per month. Residential customers,
62 years or older whose name appears on the utility bill, and “lower income” households (as
defined by State law) shall be exempt from and shall not pay any UUT,

The proposed 2% UUT rate for Carson would be lower than surrounding cities with similar UUTs.
Examples of UUT rates in surrounding cities include: Compton, 10% (electricity, gas & water)
& 8.5% (telephone), Long Beach, 5%, Los Angeles, 10%, and Torrance, 6.5%.

Measure C was placed on the ballot by the unanimous vote of the City Council following a
discussion of the need for additional city revenues. The 2008-2009 general fund budget requires
the use of $1.8 million from city reserves to balance the budget. Due to current economic
conditions, the State’s budget deficit, and other recessionary indicators, this “structural budget
deficit” is expected to grow unless new funding sources are obtained.

If Measure C is approved, all funds would be deposited into the city’s general fund. Historically,
in Carson the largest expenditure from the general fund is used to contract for law enforcement
services provided by Los Angeles County Sheriffs Department. Other examples of typical uses
for general fund revenues include street and sidewalk repair, construction and maintenance of
public parks and facilities, city recreational and park programs, and graffiti removal.

Measure C also requires the appointment of a citizens’ oversight committee which shall receive
reports from the City’s Tax Administrator and make recommendations to the City Council. This
committee would not have decision-making authority over general fund expenditures because,
by law, such authority remains with the City Council.

A “Yes” vote means you support a 2% UUT on only electric and natural gas utilities at this time.
A “No” vote means you oppose a 2% UUT at this time. This measure would take effect if a
majority of those voting on this ballot measure cast a “Yes” vote at the election. The UUT would
end (or “sunset”) seven (7) years from the date of its enactment (or in 2016) unless extended
by a new vote of the voters of Carson.

<impartialend>