Impartial Analysis from County Counsel Richard E. Winnie


Measure J is an Albany Unified School District ("District") special parcel tax measure. 
Albany voters already approved three separate parcel taxes in 1987, 1999, and 2005. 
Measure J seeks voter approval to combine these three special parcel taxes. This measure 
would not increase, or be in addition to, the total amount of the three already-approved 
special parcel taxes. The levy of the combined special parcel taxes would be as follows: 
(1) $555.00 per taxable, residential unit, and (2) $0.11 per square foot of land area or 
$555.00 on each parcel of nonresidential property (whichever is greater). This measure 
would also add exemptions and rebates that are not available under the already approved 
special parcel taxes. Finally, this measure would extend the special parcel tax approved 
in 2005, which is currently set to expire in 2012.
School districts have the authority to 
levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposals 
pursuant to the provisions of Article XIIIA, Section 4 and Article XIIIC, Section 2 of the 
California Constitution and sections 50075-50077, 50079, and 53722 of the California 
Government Code.
If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for 
approval, the special tax will be imposed annually beginning on July 1, 2010. The tax will 
be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax Collector just as ad valorem property taxes 
are collected. Upon application to the District, an exemption from the special parcel tax may 
be granted (a) to any parcel that is owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older, 
or (b) to any property owner whose combined family income is at or below the "low income" 
level of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937. Upon proper application to the District, a rebate 
equal to the amount of this special tax is available to any tenant of a rental unit whose 
combined family income is at or below the "low income" level of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the funding 
revenue will be used for the specific purposes set forth in the full text of the measure 
printed in this sample ballot, including hiring and retaining librarians; preserving small 
class sizes; and hiring and retaining qualified teachers. The measure provides that the 
monies collected shall be accounted for separately and shall be expended only for those 
specified purposes. An independent financial auditor will monitor the collection and 
expenditures of the special tax funds and file annual reports with the Board of Education. 
If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, 
the measure will fail, and the District will not be authorized to combine the special taxes. 
Those special taxes, however, will continue in effect until their scheduled expiration, if 
any.


County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure J, 
which measure is printed in full in this sample ballot pamphlet. If you desire an additional 
copy of the measure, please call the Elections Official's office at (510) 272-6933 and a copy 
will be mailed at no cost to you.