<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A ;

The Hayward City Council has placed a measure on the
May 19, 2009, ballot, asking voters to approve a Utility
Users Tax Ordinance. If passed by a simple majority of the
voters voting on the measure, the Ordinance would
impose a five and one-half percent (5.5%) utility users tax
on telecommunication services (including landline tele-
phone and cellphone services), video services (including
cable television), electricity and gas consumption. Water
consumption and sewer services would not be taxed under
the Ordinance. The tax would automatically expire on
June 30, 2019. The tax could only be extended with an
additional vote of the people.

In general, utility companies would collect the tax from
consumers as part of their regular utility bills and would
remit the taxes to the City. Qualifying low-income residents and Lifeline program participants would be exempt
from the tax, upon application and approval by the Tax
Administrator. The definition of each utility service and a
description of how the tax is calculated are more particularly described in the Ordinance.

The utility users tax is a general tax intended to alleviate
the City’s ongoing general operating budget deficit. Revenue generated by the tax would be deposited in the City’s
General Fund and used to support essential public services, including police, fire and paramedic services; the
operation of youth/anti-gang. disaster preparedness and
economic development programs; street repairs and maintenance; graffiti removal; code enforcement and library
programs, and other general governmental purposes. The
Ordinance includes a requirement for an annual financial
audit of tax collection and expenditures to be performed
by a qualified, independent third party. The results of the
annual audits would be available to the public. /

A "‘Yes” vote an Measure A means the voter is in favor of
authorizing the City to collect a utility users tax for ten
years. A “No” vote on Measure A means the voter is not in
favor of the City collecting a utility users tax.

<impartialend>