<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

Measure U, if passed, would permit the City of Irwindale
(“City”) to continue to collect the existing seven and one-
half percent (1/2 %) utility users tax (“UUT”) currently
imposed on telephone, electricity, gas, water and video-
like (cable) services. It also proposes to update the City’s
UUT so that it reflects modern technology. Your “yes” vote
means that the UUT rate would remain the same and that
the UUT would be updated in the way described. Your
“no” vote means the UUT would be repealed.

Specifically, this measure would permit the continued
collection of the seven and one-half percent (7 1/2 %)
UUT on charges for consumption of: (i) all interstate and
international telecommunications services, (ii) water, (iii)
electrical, (iv) gas, and (v) video-like (cable) services. This
measure does not tax the internet, which is prohibited
by federal law. This measure will also keep in place the
current exemption for low-volume users, which typically
includes residents and small businesses.

Measure U was enacted by the City Council in 1977.
However, the rates have not been changed, nor has
the measure been updated, since 1991. According to
Resolution No. 2009-42-2400, which was recently adopted
by the City Council, a “Yes” vote on the UUT, which
provides for just over $3.5 million of the City’s general fund
revenue, or approximately 21 percent of the City’s general
fund operating revenues, “will provide ongoing revenue
to avoid reductions in City staff, public safety and vital
services to the community.”

UUT revenue is unrestricted and can be used for any
general fund purpose. Currently, the largest expenditure
in the City’s budget from the General Fund is used to pay
for police services. The cost is $6.1 million or 32 percent
of the City’s General Fund budget. Other examples of
typical uses for general fund revenue include fire, street
maintenance, parks, recreation, libraries, senior services
and other general services. This measure maintains
existing exemptions for low-volume users, but allows the
City Council to adjust the exemption amount consistent
with the intent of the provision. This measure requires
approval from a majority of voters voting at an election
to take effect.

<impartialend>