<impartial>

Impartial Analysis of Measure O

The City of South San Francisco currently taxes the use of
facilities at hotels, motels and “bed and breakfast” businesses, including
rooms used for overnight accommodations. A hotel guest pays the tax,
and the hotel operator collects the tax and forwards it to the City. The tax
is called a “transient occupancy tax” (“TOT”) and is frequently referred
to as a “hotel tax.” The current TOT rate is 9% of the amount that a hotel
charges for use of its facilities. Measure O would (a) increase the TOT by
1%, resulting in a total rate of 10%; (b) apply the tax to separate charges for
vehicle parking at hotels; and (c) amend provisions of the City’s Municipal
Code to ensure full collection of the TOT when a third party arranges for
rental of a hotel’s facilities.

The additional tax revenue generated by the increase in the TOT
rate would be deposited in the City’s general fund and used to fund general
public services, including parks, recreation, police, fire, streets, and libraries
as determined by the City Council. As such, the 1% increase is considered a
“general tax.”

Measure O would make several other changes to the TOT
ordinance. First, it would apply the TOT to any charges levied by hotels
for vehicle parking, when the hotel charges for parking separately. Second,
it would clarify that, when third parties arrange for the rental of hotel
facilities, the TOT should be calculated based on the full amount that is
charged to the hotel guest for the use of those facilities, and that hotel
operators are responsible for collecting and remitting to the City the total
amount of tax owed. That change is partly intended to ensure that the
TOT is properly collected for room reservations made using third party
internet-based reservation services. Finally, the proposed ordinance would
authorize the City Council to amend Chapter 4.20 to ensure that the TOT
is imposed and collected on the total amount charged for the use of hotel
facilities, provided that any amendment that would increase the tax rate
or impose the TOT on anyone currently exempt would be required to be
submitted to and approved by the voters of South San Francisco before it
could take effect.

The existing TOT was last increased in 2004 to the current rate
of nine percent (9%). Additionally, the voters have previously approved
a special tax of $2.50 per room night to fund the acquisition, renovation,
maintenance and operation of the South San Francisco Conference Center.
Measure O will not modify the existing Conference Center special tax.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the ordinance increasing the
hotel tax by one percent (1%) and authorizing the additional amendments
described herein. A “no” vote is a vote against increasing the tax and the
proposed amendments. Measure O would be approved if it received a
majority of “yes” votes.

<impartialend>