<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A
PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

MODERNIZATION OF BELLFLOWER’S UTILITY USERS’ TAX FOR
CONTINUED FUNDING OF IMPORTANT CITY SERVICES

This City Council-proposed Measure A would continue the City’s existing
Utility Users’ Tax (UUT) relating to Telecommunications Services,
provide an updated UUT for those services in relation to current
technology, as well as to emerging and future technologies and make
other clarifications and updates to the municipal code related to the
City’s UUT in general.

Background.

Since 1993, Bellflower residents and businesses have paid the UUT on
telecommunications, electricity and gas services. All UUT revenues
are paid into the City’s General Fund, which is allocated by the City
Council through the annual budget for general city services, such as
public safety services, graffiti removal, gang and drug prevention and
enforcement programs, after-school activities, senior and disabled
residents' services and library services. The current UUT rate is 5%.
Total UUT revenues comprise approximately 15.6%, or $4.1 Million, of
the City’s General Fund revenues. Telecommunication UUT revenues
comprise approximately 6.8%, or $1.8 Million, of the City’s General
Fund revenues.

In past years, Bellflower, and most California cities with UUT’s,
determined which telecommunications services would be subject to the
UUT by referencing definitions in federal law. Recent interpretation of
those federal law definitions has changed. That change in interpretation
has created uncertainty about the application and reach of the City’s
UUT. Measure A would update municipal code provisions governing
the UUT (“UUT ordinance”), by eliminating references to the federal law
definitions and assuring the UUT is applicable to emerging and future
communications technologies.

Measure A would:

•	Replace older definitions, include definitions that address
new technologies and treat all telecommunications customers
similarly, whether they use traditional landline telephones, cell
phones, VoIP, bundling with other non-taxed utility services
such as Internet or cable/satellite TV or some future mode of
communication services.

•	Maintain the UUT at the current rate of 5% for all communication
services, regardless of technology. The City Council may
temporarily lower or suspend that rate in the future, but may not
raise it above 5% without a vote of the people.

•	Maintain the existing exemption for low-income households: the
Council may temporarily expand exemptions, but may not reduce
or eliminate exemptions for low-income households without a
vote of the people.

•	Require an annual independent verification to confirm the UUT
is being properly collected, remitted and spent.

•	Not tax the use of the Internet. Federal law prohibits taxing that
use and Measure A complies with that law.

•	Make non-substantive and procedural amendments to clarify
the existing UUT ordinance.

Measure A requires approval of a majority of the voters. A “Yes" vote for
Measure A will approve the updates to the UUT ordinance, as described
above. A “No” vote against Measure A will leave in place the City’s
existing UUT code provisions, without updates.

<impartialend>