<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
CITY OF GUSTINE
ONE-HALF CENT SALES TAX INCREASE FOR
COMMUNITY SERVICES
MEASURE B

Gustine Community Services Measure. To maintain safety and
community services including, but not limited to, maintaining
an adequate number of police and fire personnel, and
providing and maintaining recreation facilities and services
throughout the community such as Y-Lead, swimming pool
and city parks, shall the ordinance be adopted increasing
the City general sales tax by a half-cent, with guaranteed
independent financial audits?

Impartial Analysis from the City Attorney

Measure B would raise revenue for the City of Gustine by
authorizing a one-half percent transaction and use tax
(commonly referred to as a “sales tax”) within the City of
Gustine. The one-half percent tax would be paid in addition to
the current sales tax. If approved by a majority of the voters,
t1' ~ tax would go into effect April 1,2010.

Measure B provides that the sales tax is to be used for
“general governmental purposes of the City and be received

into the general fund of the City." Because sales tax is a
general tax, it could be used for any legal municipal purpose.
The City would not be legally bound to use the tax monies for
any special purpose or for any particular services, facilities,
or programs.

Measure B requires the City’s independent auditors to
complete an annual “Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance
Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report." Their report
must review whether the sales tax revenues collected by the
City are collected, managed, and expended in accordance
with the requirements of applicable law.

Measure B would make Gustine Ordinance 450 operative.
The Ordinance, which has been reviewed by the State Board
of Equalization, is the legal instrument that authorizes an
additional sales tax, but only if a majority of the voters at
the November 3, 2009 election vote for this measure. The
Ordinance was adopted by the City Council on September
15, 2009, and a copy is available for review at the City of
Gustine City Clerk’s Office.

<impartialend>