<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Measure A asks City of Clovis voters whether the City should enact a 1-cent sales tax
for a period of 10 years and lowered to 3/4-cent thereafter. The 1-cent tax is equal to
one penny for each dollar spent on taxable sales in the City (1.00%). The 3/4-cent tax
is equal to three quarters of a penny for each dollar spent on taxable sales in the City
(0.75%). If approved, the 1-cent sales tax would take effect on July 1, 2009. The 3/4-
cent sales tax would replace the 1-cent tax on July 1, 2019. The tax will be
implemented through Ordinance No. 08-27 approved by the City Council on
December 1, 2008.

The new 1-penny and 3/4-penny sales tax would be a general tax to be used for
general governmental purposes of the City of Clovis. The proceeds will be placed in
the City’s general fund and may be used for police and fire services, street and
pothole repairs, senior services, parks and landscape maintenance, youth recreation
programs, and other public buildings, facilities and services. The exact use will be
determined by the City Council in making budgetary decisions. The City Council
would not be legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose
or for any particular program or service.

Each year an independent auditor will complete a financial compliance and audit
report to include the revenue raised by the tax and its expenditures. In addition, a
seven member citizen’s oversight committee will be appointed to review how the
revenue raised by the sales tax is spent.

The current combined State and local sales tax rate in the City of Clovis is 7.975%.
This rate is made up of the following components: A 7.25% rate set by the State of
California of which the City is entitled to receive 1.00%; however, pursuant to long
established agreements with the County of Fresno, the City receives 0.95% of this
1.00% and passes through the remaining 0.05% to the County of Fresno to help pay
for County services utilized by Clovis residents. The City’s 0.95% share of the total
sales tax goes into the City’s general fund and is used for general municipal purposes
such as those set forth above. Other components of the combined sales tax rate
include a 0.50% rate approved by the voters of Fresno County for regional
transportation purposes; a 0.125% rate approved by the voters of Fresno County for
regional library purposes; and a 0.10% rate approved by the voters of Fresno County
for the Fresno Zoo. If Measure A is approved, the new combined State and local sales
tax rate in the City of Clovis would be 8.975% for 10 years (until July 1, 2019), and
8.725% thereafter.


<impartialend>