<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
UTILITY USERS TAX MEASURE S

The City Council of the City of Pinole has placed Measure S on
the November 2, 2010 ballot to ask voters to extend the existing Utility
Users Tax (“UUT”) for an additional eight years and to add water
services as a taxable utility. Measure S would only become effective if
approved by a simple majority of voters.

The UUT was originally approved by a vote of the people of
Pinole in 1998 with an expiration date of December 1, 2004. The tax
was set at eight percent (8%) of the cost of electric, gas, and telephone
utility services. Utility service providers collect the tax as part of the
monthly service bill to customers and remit the proceeds to the City. As
a general tax, the revenue from the UUT is placed in the City’s general
fund and is available to support the provision of general municipal
services. On November 2, 2004, Pinole voters extended the UUT eight
years through December 1, 2012, at which time it would terminate
automatically and without further action by either the City Council or the
voters of Pinole.

The City Council placed this Measure S on the ballot for two
reasons. First, to ask the voters to extend the existing UUT for an
additional eight years, to December 31, 2020. Second, to add water
service as a taxable utility. If approved, Measure S would amend the
Municipal Code to substitute the new termination date of the UUT and
include water as a taxable utility. All other aspects of the UUT would
remain unchanged.

Currently, the UUT generates approximately $2,150,325
annually. This amount is approximately 19% of the City’s general fund.
The proposed addition of water service as a taxable utility is estimated to
generate an additional $178,000 annually, and a total of $1,424,000 to
the City’s general fund over eight years. If the tax is not approved by the
voters, the City would have to implement immediate reductions in
general municipal services.

By placing Measure S on the ballot, the City complies with Article
XIIIC of the California Constitution (adopted by Proposition 218), which
requires the voters to approve an amended ordinance which affects
amount of the tax, the manner of collection, and other related matters.
The proposed modifications to the ordinance are printed in the sample
ballot. The full text of the proposed ordinance is available at the Pinole
City Clerk’s office.

The UUT extension proposed in Measure S will not become
effective unless the Measure is approved by at least a majority of those
voting on the Measure.

<impartialend>