<impartial>

CITY OF PLYMOUTH
CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE 0

The City of Plymouth currently imposes a six percent transient
occupancy tax which was approved by the voters in 1980. The
transient occupancy tax is imposed only on hotel visitors or visitors
to a similar place of business who visit the City of Plymouth for
thirty days or less. The tax is collected by the hotel operator based
on the room rent paid by visitors and is transmitted to the City. The
City's transient occupancy tax is a general tax and, in accordance
with California law, the tax rate may not be increased unless approved
by a majority of the voters in the City of Plymouth. On June 10,
2010, the City Council adopted a resolution submitting to the voters
an ordinance amending Section 3.30.030 of Chapter 3 of the Plymouth
Municipal Code to increase the TOT rate to ten percent on all transient
hotel visitors. The City Council subsequently approved an ordinance
to amend the transient occupancy tax to exclude recreational
vehicles from the proposed transient occupancy tax increase and
to provide that recreational vehicles shall remain taxed at six percent,
if Measure O passes.

Measure O is the ordinance that was approved by the City Council
on June 10, 2010. If approved by the voters, Measure O would
amend Section 3.30.030 of Plymouth’s Municipal Code to increase
the transient occupancy tax rate by four percent for a total transient

occupancy tax rate of ten percent. Revenue collected from the
transient occupancy tax is deposited into the City's general fund to
pay for general governmental services such as street maintenance,
parking, landscaping and tourism, including promotions, events,
signage and advertising.

If Measure O is approved by the voters, it would increase the transient
occupancy tax from six percent to ten percent of the amount charged
by hotel operators for hotel occupancy. If Measure O is approved
and transient occupancy tax rate in the City of Plymouth becomes
ten percent, the City Council will have discretion to reduce the amount
of the transient occupancy tax in the future as the City Council sees
fit.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the increasing the hotel tax to ten
percent (10%).

A “no" vote maintains the current hotel tax rate of six percent (6 %).
DATED: July 20, 2010

<impartialend>