<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “G”

The City Council of the City of Desert Hot Springs has placed Measure “G” on the June 8, 2010 ballot to ask voters to consider extending the existing Public Safety Special Tax (“Public Safety Tax”) for an additional ten (10) years. Measure “G” would only become effective if approved by two-thirds of voters casting a vote on the Measure at the election. 

If approved, Measure "G" would extend the current Public
Tax for an additional ten years, to June 30, 2020. at which time it
terminate automatically, unless extended by the voters of the City
of Desert Hot Springs. A "Yes" vote is to extend the Public Safety Tax. A “No”
vote is to allow the tax to expire.

The Public Safety Tax was originally approved by the voters in
2000, and will expire on June 30 of this year. As approved, the tax is
levied on all real property located within the City of Desert Hot Springs,
except property specifically exempt under state or federal law. The
Public Safety fax is collected by the Riverside County Treasurer-Tax
Collector and provides funding for police protection, fire protection, code
enforcement, animal control and other public safety services throughout
the City.

The amount of the tax is based on each property’s land use
classification, including residential properties, commercial properties
industrial properties and hotel properties. Currently, the tax on a
single-family residence is $120.87. On an annual basis the tax amount is
adjusted by either three percent, or the cost of living increase established
by the consumer price index, whichever is less. If the voters extend the
Public Safety Tax, the current rates will be adjusted on July 1,2010.

Measure "G” would also add to the Public Safety Tax a definition of the term "Dwelling Unit," which is used to calculate the tax for residential parcels. The definition codifies the currently used administrative interpretation of the term. The addition of the definition would not change the amount of tax presently levied on a parcel. 

<impartialend>