<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
State Law specifically provides that cities may impose license requirements on businesses for revenue or regulation. Campbell currently requires licenses for both reasons. The regulatory measures include provisions to regulate such businesses as kennels, taxicabs, towing, and massage. Under current law, cities are allowed to charge fees to defray the cost of such regulatory programs, provided that the fees do not exceed the estimated cost of the program.
The business license tax rates set forth in Title 5 of the Municipal Code have not changed in over twenty-five years. However, the City does currently charge a processing fee of $25.00 for renewals and $50.00 for new applications in addition to the tax set forth in the Municipal Code.
A yes vote on Measure M would change the current tax rates, eliminate the processing fee, consolidate some of the business types into broader categories, provide that all of the regulatory fees are approved by resolution, and give the City Council the authority to annually increase the business license tax rates by no more than two percent to account for inflation. It would also add a specific exemption from taxation in the Code for the exercise of non-commercial speech.
The primary business license tax categories in the Municipal Code are: (1) commercial; (2) industrial; and (3) professional. In addition, the Code also contains separate categories for such things as out of town businesses, hotels, mobile homes, rental properties, solicitors, occult sciences, and mechanical amusement devices.
The rates for the three primary categories are based on the number of employees in the business. According to the Finance Department, the most prevalent types of businesses in Campbell are commercial and industrial businesses with five or less employees and professional businesses with three or less employees. Currently, these businesses pay between $60.00 to $77.00 per year to renew a license or between $85.00 to $102.00 for a new business, including the processing fee. Under Measure M, these businesses would pay an annual tax of $110.00, an increase of $50.00 or less per year.
Under Measure M, the rates for larger businesses would increase in a graduated fashion, with businesses that have fifty-one or more employees paying the top rates. These highest rates would be $500.00 per year for commercial and professional businesses, and $300.00 per year for industrial businesses. The tax on mechanical amusement or vending machines would be based on the number of machines, ranging from $90.00 to $500.00.

The new rates would take effect on July 1, 2011; and there would be independent annual financial audits. According to the City's Finance Department, the approval of Measure M would raise approximately $250,000 in additional revenue for the City. The tax revenue would be deposited in the City's general fund, and would be available for use by the City for any of its general expenses, including such things as 911 emergency responses, firefighting efforts, police patrols, crime prevention, city streets and pothole repair, after-school programs for children/teens and senior programs.

<impartialend>