<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH
MEASURE _

Ballot Measure _ proposes adoption of an ordinance to replace and update the existing telephone and video user tax sections of the City’s utility user tax
ordinance. The proposed ordinance would reduce the telephone and video user tax rate from 5% to 4.9% and apply the tax more broadly to telephone and
video services, regardless of the technology used or method of billing and/or collection of the tax. The tax dollars are used exclusively within the City for
general governmental purposes. The methodology whereby users are taxed cannot be expanded without a vote of the people. The proposed ordinance has
no effect on the existing utility user tax applied to electrical, gas and water services.

The existing ordinance was written in 1970 and updated in 1988 and 2003. The current tax rate is 5%. The ordinance has become outdated due to rapid
advances in technology, as well as new legislation and federal and state court decisions that limit the application of the tax. Currently, the City does not tax
many communication services and devices that have recently come into existence, such as voice-over-internet protocol. In addition, recent federal court
decisions have cast doubt on whether the current ordinance can be imposed on long distance, cellular and bundled telephone services. Should the City be
sued, or if adverse decisions are reached that are binding on the City, the revenue collected from the current ordinance would be reduced substantially. The
2009-2010 revenue from the cable and video tax is projected to be approximately $8,725,000 ($6,650,000 telephone and $2,075,000 video). This total is
less than the previous year tax total of $9,292,158 because there are less telephone and video services that the City is able to tax. Adoption of the proposed
ordinance would protect the City from adverse litigation as well as capture telephone and video services that are being eroded from the City tax base
because of changing technology.

A “yes” vote is in favor of adopting the updated communications tax ordinance summarized above. A “no” vote is against adopting the ordinance. A majority
of “yes” votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>