<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

State law authorizes the City to impose a sales tax increase for general purposes if it is approved
by a two-thirds vote of the governing body and a majority of the City's voters. On August 4,
2010, six members of the eight-member City Council approved a temporary, one-half cent
increase to the sales tax in the City of San Diego that may be imposed only if certain conditions
are first met. This measure seeks voter approval of the proposed increase.

The tax increase would not be operative until the City Auditor certifies that the following
conditions have been met:

1.	The City adopting an ordinance eliminating retirement offsets for elected officials
and those City employees not represented by a labor organization. "Retirement
offsets" are the amount of an individual's retirement system contribution which the
City agrees to pay on behalf of the individual.

2.	The City adopting, by ordinance, a managed competition guide for various City
services.

3.	The Mayor completing a study of costs to the City of the Deferred Retirement Option
Plan (DROP) program and presenting findings to the City Council. If the study finds
DROP is not "cost neutral," the City will initiate "meet and confer" proceedings with
labor unions to make DROP cost neutral.

4.	The Mayor soliciting requests for qualifications from bidders to assume operations of
the Miramar Landfill.

5.	The City adopting an ordinance eliminating terminal leave for City employees.
Terminal leave allows employees to remain on the payroll when they end
employment, using accrued leave, instead of taking a lump sum payment. Under
the ordinance, upon separation from the City, an employee may only cash out
accrued leave.

6.	The City reducing the total cost of "retirement offsets" existing as of June 30, 2010
for employees represented by labor organizations.

7.	The City reducing its retiree health care liability existing as of June 30, 2010.

8.	The Mayor soliciting proposals from bidders to provide the City's information
technology services.

9.	The City establishing a second tier pension plan for new employees represented by
the firefighters union, comparable to one in effect for new police officers.

10.	The City adopting an ordinance that would allow all City employees to voluntarily
select or switch from a current retirement plan to a new alternative Defined
Contribution Plan. The new plan may be subject to IRS and other governmental
approvals, but obtaining such approval is not part of this condition.

The tax would be operative the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the State Board of Equalization receives the City Auditor's certification. The City must
deposit all revenues received from the tax increase into the City's general fund. Proceeds could
be spent for any lawful governmental purpose. The authority to levy the tax would expire five
years after the operative date described above, or December 31, 2017, whichever is earlier. The
City could suspend or terminate the tax earlier.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

If the conditions contained in Proposition D are fully implemented, the total projected savings to
the City could range from $3.5 million to $428 million over the next five years, and $8.7 million to
$855 million over the next ten years. The implementation of these conditions and the realization
of any associated fiscal impact are contingent upon the outcome of the meet and confer process,
managed competition and outsourcing requirements of the measure. Some of the conditions are
estimated to reduce the City's pension and health care liabilities by approximately $200 million to
$500 million and reduce taxpayer financial exposure for pension and retiree health care costs by
approximately $20 million to $50 million annually. The other conditions such as managed
competition, outsourcing and benefit reductions could save taxpayers an additional $626,000 to
$43 million annually. These projected fiscal impacts do not include the additional potential
savings from the new Defined Contribution Pension Plan or the results of the Deferred
Retirement Option Plan (DROP) Cost Neutrality Study. The estimated savings are based upon
current budget information, previous City experience, the application of industry standards and
actuarial calculations and are preliminary. Only if the independent City Auditor certifies that the
conditions contained in Proposition D are satisfied, will the City's General Fund receive a net
estimated $102 million annually for five years in new sales tax revenue from the temporary
one-half cent sales tax.

<impartialend>