<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Prepared by Sacramento City Attorney

Measure C would enact an ordinance amending the City of
Sacramento’s existing Business Operations Tax to set new tax
rates for “marijuana businesses." A marijuana business would be
defined to include planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing,
storing, packaging, providing, or selling marijuana, including medical marijuana “cooperatives" and “collectives” that are established as not-for-profit businesses.

Under the City’s existing Business Operations Tax ordinance,
marijuana businesses and most other businesses are taxed
based on gross receipts, meaning a business’s total revenue without deducting expenses. Under the existing ordinance, the tax
rate for businesses with annual gross receipts of $10,000 or less
is a flat rate of $30 each year, while the tax rate for businesses
with annual gross receipts in excess of $10,000 is $30 each year,
plus $0.0004 for each additional dollar of gross receipts in excess
of $10,000. The annual tax liability under the City’s existing ordinance is capped at $5,000.

Measure C would remove this cap for marijuana businesses
and establish new gross receipts tax rates for these businesses.
For a marijuana business providing marijuana pursuant to the
Compassionate Use Act of 1996 ("medical marijuana"), the tax
rate would be a maximum of 4% of the business’s annual gross
receipts. For a marijuana business providing non-medical marijuana pursuant to the “Regulate, Control, and Tax Cannabis Act of
2010" (Proposition 19), if approved by California voters, the tax
rate would be a maximum of 10% of the business’s annual gross
receipts. The City Council would have the discretion to lower or
raise the tax rates from time to time, not to exceed the maximum
tax rates of 4% for medical marijuana and 10% for non-medical
marijuana.

The marijuana business tax proposed by Measure C is a general tax because the City could use the tax revenue for any legal
municipal purpose. Measure C would require the City to perform
annual independent audits to verify that tax revenues are properly expended.

A “yes" vote is in favor of amending Sacramento’s existing
Business Operations Tax to set the new tax rates for marijuana
businesses. A “no" vote is against amending the ordinance, and
would leave in effect the existing Business Operations Tax rate for
marijuana businesses. A majority of "yes” votes is required for the
ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>