<impartial>

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE B

If approved by the voters, this measure would adopt a
new Town of San Anselmo ordinance imposing a Special
Library Services Parcel Tax on all residential and non-residential parcels in San Anselmo, the proceeds of which
would be used exclusively for library services at the San
Anselmo Public Library.

If approved by the voters, the special parcel tax would
be imposed each year for five years starting in fiscal year
2010-2011, at the rate of $49 per parcel on all parcels. The
tax would be included on and payable with the property
owner’s Marin County property tax bill.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
used only locally for purposes of increasing San Anselmo
Public Library’s open hours, improving children’s services
at the library, hiring a children’s librarian, and general
enhancement of library services.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
placed into a separate account subject to an annual report
by the Town’s Finance Director.

The purpose of the tax would be to augment Library
funding currently provided by the Town of San Anselmo,
and not to replace such funding. Accordingly, if the Town
were to reduce its annual funding of the Library, then the
tax would continue only if the Town’s funding of the
Library were to remain above 90% (ninety percent) of the
amount budgeted for 2008-2009. That amount is $420,000.
If the Town Council were to adopt a budget that reduced
Library funding below that amount, then the tax would no
longer be levied.

The measure would provide a full or partial rebate of the
tax, upon approved application to the Town’s Tax Equity
Board, for any person claiming inability to pay for tax.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the
measure would provide that the appropriations limit for
the Town would be increased one times the aggregate sum
authorized to be levied as a special tax in each of the five
years proposed for the Library tax.

To become effective, this measure must be approved
by two-thirds of the electors voting at the election.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>