<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Measure M proposes adopting an ordinance that would
amend the existing telephone utility user tax with an
updated communications tax.

The utility users tax (or “UUT”) was first adopted in 1988.
It is imposed on commercial and industrial service users
of electricity, water, telephone, and gas. Measure M
would only affect the telephone tax of the UUT; it does
not affect the existing UUT applied to electrical, gas and
water services.

Significant technological advances since 1988 rendered
the telephone tax less effective in taxing technology
that replaced the telephone; the tax is not imposed on
communication services and devices that have increased
in usage since 1988. Unless precluded by federal statute,
Measure M would update the existing UUT to apply the
telephone tax to all types of communication and video
services. A federal statute currently prohibits local
taxation of internet and broadband services providing
access to the internet. Measure M would not apply to
digital downloads such as music, games and ringtones.

Currently, the rate for the telephone tax is 2%. Revenues
from this telephone tax - approximately $530,000 in
2008-2009 - can only be used for the City’s general
governmental purposes. The tax cannot be increased in
the future without voter approval.

Several federal court decisions in other states make it
unclear whether the telephone tax, as currently written,
can be imposed on long distance, cellular and bundled
telephone services. Several California cities with taxes
similar to El Segundo’s are currently litigating this issue.
Should California courts determine that telephone taxes
are inapplicable to those services, the telephone tax
revenues would be reduced. Adopting Measure M would
protect the City from an adverse outcome in any such
litigation.

To be adopted, Measure M must be approved by a simple
majority of the voters in the city of El Segundo.

A “yes” vote on Measure M favors the Measure.

A “no” vote on Measure M opposes the Measure.

<impartialend>