<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Measure Q amends the Pacific Grove Municipal Code to create a special parcel tax to benefit the Pacific Grove Public Library.
The Pacific Grove City Council titled this Measure the "Pacific Grove Essential Library Services Measure of 2010." Measure Q
was placed on the November 2, 2010 ballot upon the unanimous vote of the City Council.

Measure Q would place a new ninety dollars ($90) per year tax on owners of all single residential parcels and non-residential
parcels. This also applies to commercial, hotel, industrial, and public utility properties. Measure Q applies to all similarly
situated property owners. The annual tax on owners of multiple residential parcels would be forty five dollars ($45) per
occupied residential unit. Low income households shall qualify for exemptions from the tax. Monterey County Assessor
standards define parcels within the City of Pacific Grove. The tax shall be assessed based upon parcel ownership on July 1 of
each year.

Measure Q does not create an ad valorem tax on property. It is not create a transaction tax. It is not a tax on the sale of
property.

If approved, the tax shall be collected for ten (10) years. After June 30, 2021 Measure Q shall sunset and no longer have any
effect. Measure Q expressly prohibits the tax from increasing during its term by reason of cost of living or any other factor.

If authorized. Measure Q revenue is required to be used solely to maintain and improve the Pacific Grove Public Library. All
funds must be deposited into a special fund. Money can only be expended to pay Pacific Grove Public Library costs for
personnel, utilities, materials, contract services and other items beneficial to library programs including its services, facilities
and assets. Proceeds may also be used to audit Library expenses.

Measure Q requires that revenue raised by the new tax shall not offset or replace funding currently provided by the City of
Pacific Grove. The Measure requires the City to fund the library at a minimum of 2.83 percent of the total Pacific Grove
General Fund Budget.

Measure Q also creates the Pacific Grove Library Tax Oversight Board to ensure proper collection, administration and
expenditure of Measure Q proceeds. The Oversight Board shall consist of five members. Each member shall be a resident
and elector of the City of Pacific Grove. One member shall be appointed by the Pacific Grove Library Board, one by the
Friends of the Pacific Grove Public Library, one by the Pacific Grove Chamber of Commerce. Additionally, the Mayor shall
appoint a Certified Public Accountant and a citizen-at-large to serve on the Oversight Board.

Measure Q shall be enacted only upon approval by two-thirds (%) of electors casting ballots in this election.

A "YES" vote approves the Pacific Grove Essential Library Services Measure tax.

A "NO" vote rejects the special tax.

<impartialend>