<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE R

The City Council of the City of El Cerrito has placed Measure R on the
ballot to ask the voters to approve a temporary one-half of one percent
(0.50%) transactions and use tax within the City. The proposed tax
would add a half-cent to the price of an item that costs a dollar, or fifty
cents to the price of an item that costs $100.

Because Measure R does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a “general
tax,” not a “special tax” that restricts the funds to specific purposes.
Therefore, as explained in the ballot question, the City may use the funds
for a variety of purposes, including but not limited to maintaining current
levels of fire prevention and emergency services; neighborhood police
patrols, emergency response times, crime prevention and investigation
resources; firefighter and police staffing; earthquake preparedness;
afterschool programs for children and teens; senior services; and parks.

The tax would terminate automatically seven years after collection
begins, unless extended by the voters.

The Measure requires the City’s independent auditors to prepare
annually a publicly available report on the collection, management and
expenditure of revenue from the tax. Additionally, it requires the City’s
Financial Advisory Board (“FAB”) to review that report as part of its
review of the annual audit of the City’s finances.

Currently, the cumulative tax on retail sales in El Cerrito is 9.75% of the
purchase price. The City receives only 1.25% of the revenue generated
by the cumulative tax, however. The remainder goes to the State
(7.25%), Contra Costa County (0.25%), the Contra Costa Transportation
Authority (0.50%), and BART (0.50%). Effective April 2, 2009, the State
increased the sales tax by 1 %. That increase will expire on July 1,2011.

If the State allows its 1% increase to sunset in 2011, the total sales tax
rate in the City would drop to 9.25%. The total sales tax rate would
further decrease to 8.75% upon the expiration of this tax.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use
tax” and “transactions and use tax.” With some exceptions, both are
levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail.
Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the
State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

Measure R would authorize a 0.50% transactions and use tax, which
would increase the total sales tax rate to 10.25%. Of the total rate,
1.25% would go to the City’s general fund and be available to support
the full range of municipal services. In 2008, El Cerrito voters approved
a 0.50% transactions and use tax that is restricted to the City’s Pothole
Repair and Street Improvement and Maintenance program.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the half-cent tax for
seven years, with annual audits and review by the FAB. A “No” vote is a
vote against the tax. Measure R would be approved if it received a
simple majority of “Yes” votes.

<impartialend>