<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “I"

Measure I proposes the adoption of a five percent (5%) utility
users tax (“UUT) on the following utility services: telecommunications
electricity, gas, water, sewer, end garbage. The UUT is a general tax
used by approximately 150 California cities to fund city and community
services. Revenue from the tax would be placed in the City's general
fund for essential government services for Coachella residents, including
ponce officers, firefighters, 911 response times, crime prevention gang
and drug prevention programs, fixing potholes and streets, removing
area: sweeping streets, maintaining parks, soccer and sports fields,
youth and senior services, and preserving and maintaining other services for the public. Most general fund expenses support public
safety.

The UUT would be computed on the basis of monthly usage
and would be collected by the utility services provider in accordance with

the service provider's regular billing practices. Utility customers that are
sixty-five 165) years of age or older and who qualify as either very-low
income or extremely-low income households are exempt when they file
an exemption application.

Measure I also creates a five-member Citizens Oversight
Committee charged with annually reviewing the revenues and
expenditures of the UUT, This Citizens Oversight Committee must meet
in accordance with the Brown Act and no less than once a year.

Due to the economy and the state's shifting of city revenues,
the City Council has reduced city general fund spending from $19 million
in FY 07/08 to $14 million in the current fiscal year, FY 09/10. The City
Manager and the Finance Director estimate that the city's general fund
still has a structural budget deficit of SI.6 to $2.0 million next fiscal year
and each year thereafter without more budget cuts or an additional
source of revenue. They also project that the general fund will be
insolvent within 2 years if nothing is changed from the status quo.
Emergency reserves will be exhausted.

Cuts that have been implemented include the elimination of: 4
sworn police officers: 2 community service officers; one fire engine
company and 7 firefighters; 3 code enforcement officers: 4 finance
professionals: and 12 other city positions. City employees have
furloughed and City Hall is dosed every Friday, resulting in a 105
pay for the employees. Line item expenses including travel and
support for community groups and community events have also ouw,
reduced.

The Finance Director estimates that the UUT will raise $1.4
million in the first full year of implementation.

Measure “I" requires approval of a majority of voters. A “yes"
vote for Measure T will adopt the UUT described above, A "no” vote
against Measure T” will maintain the status quo.

<impartialend>