<impartial>


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

City of Santa Monica Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance

This measure proposes to raise local City of Santa Monica revenues to be used only for general municipal purposes. The measure
would establish a one-half of one percent (1/2%) transactions and use tax. This kind of tax is also generally called a “sales” tax.
Some of the services and programs that can receive funding, if the measure is passed by the voters, include: police, fire, paramedic
and emergency 911 response, school, educational and afterschool programs, public transit, services for the disabled, gang and drug
prevention programs, environmental and library services.

The tax would be paid in addition to the existing sales tax. It would be collected at the same time and in much the same manner as
the existing sales tax. The proposed tax follows many of the rules of the existing sales tax and is administered by the State Board
of Equalization. It would only apply to goods and services that are subject to the existing sales tax. For instance, purchases of
prescription medications and food store items would not be taxed.

While the City Council by more than a two-thirds majority voted to approve the proposed transactions and use tax, it can only go
into effect if it is also approved by a majority of voters at the November 2,2010 election. If approved then, the first day that the tax
would begin to be collected would be April 1,2011.

Accompanying the transactions and use tax measure is a non-binding advisory question. This question asks voters for their preference
on how transactions and use tax revenues should be used. In particular, voters are asked if the local transactions and use tax is
passed, should half of the revenue raised be used to support school, educational and afterschool programs, with the other half of its
revenue being used for general City services such as: police, fire, paramedic and emergency 911 response, public transit, services
for the disabled, gang and drug prevention programs, environmental, library and other general fund services.

If the transactions and use tax is passed, the City Council may be guided by the outcome of the advisory question vote in how it
uses the revenue. However, the City Council is not bound by the outcome of the advisory question vote. The City Council can use
the revenue collected for any lawful City purpose that the City Council finds best serves the needs of the City.

<impartialend>