

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The City Council of the City of Antioch unanimously voted to place Measure P on the November 2, 2010 ballot. If approved by a majority of the voters, Measure P would allow a one-half cent increase in Antioch's sales tax. The increase would expire in eight years.
General Tax Revenue for All City Services
The tax would be deposited in the City's general fund and could be used for any legal governmental purpose including: police and emergency response; public works to fix potholes and maintain local streets and sidewalks; code enforcement to clean up abandoned properties; and any other City program and service.
Audit and Citizens' Oversight Committee
Each year, an independent auditor would complete a public audit report of the revenue raised by this tax and its expenditure. A five-member citizens' oversight committee would review the expenditures of the tax. The committee would be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
Ordinance
Measure P, also known as the "Preservation of City Services Sales Tax," would enact Ordinance No. 2041-C-S. This Ordinance adds Article 4 to Chapter 5 of Title 3 of the Antioch Municipal Code enacting a one-half cent sales tax, which is technically called a "transactions and use" tax. The Ordinance language was approved by the State Board of Equalization. The City Council unanimously adopted the Ordinance, but it only takes effect if approved by a majority of the voters. Copies of the Ordinance are available at City Hall or at http://www.ci.antioch.ca.us.
Tax Rate Impacts
Measure P would provide an additional one-half cent tax on each dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City of Antioch. This is the same as a 50-cent tax on a $100 taxable purchase.
The current allocation of state and local sales tax is: State of California 7.25%; BART .50%; Contra Costa Transportation Authority .50%; and the County and City share 1%. Measure P would increase the sales tax by .50% for eight years and be limited to local Antioch use.
If approved, the sales tax increase would take effect July 1, 2011. The additional sales tax would be collected in the same manner as the existing sales tax.

<impartialend>