<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY ATTORNEY FOR CITY OF LINCOLN

Measure K proposes the adoption of an ordinance that would enact a temporary 3.75 percent (3.75%) utility
users tax within the City of Lincoln on the following utility services: communication services (including landline telephone and
cell phone services), video services, electricity, gas, water, sewer and refuse hauling. The definition of each utility service is
more particularly described in the ordinance.

On August 4, 2010, the City Council of the City of Lincoln adopted Resolution No. 2010-145 determining that if the utility
users tax ordinance is approved and adopted by the voters, that the City Council will amend the ordinance to
eliminate Hie video services users tax portion of the ordinance, thereby eliminating the tax on all video services including
satellite and cable television.

Current federal law precludes local government taxation of internet access.

The utility users tax is a general tax. The revenue generated by the tax would be placed in the City's general fund and may
be used for any governmental purpose and could be used to fund essential City services such as police, fire and
emergency medical response, library, parks and recreation services.

The tax would automatically expire in four years. The tax could only be extended by a vote of the people.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and be collected by the utility service provider in accordance
with the service provider’s regular billing practices.

Qualifying very low-income residents will be exempt from the tax when they file an exemption application. The total amount of
all utility taxes imposed by Measure K upon any residential utility user during any one calendar year shall not exceed the
amount of three hundred dollars ($300) and shall not exceed six thousand dollars (S6000) during any one calendar year for
non-residential utility users.

Measure K creates a five-member Citizens Oversight Committee charged with annually reviewing the revenues and
expenditures relating to the tax. The Measure includes a requirement for annual audits by a qualified independent third party
to confirm the tax is properly collected and spent by the City. The Measure will also require the City to issue annual public
expenditure reports.

Measure K requires approval of a majority of the voters voting on the Measure. A “yes' vote is in favor of adopting Measure K.
A "no” vote is against adopting Measure K.

<impartialend>