<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

EMERGENCY LOCAL FUNDING FOR VITAL CITY SERVICES THROUGH
AN INCREASE OF 2% IN BELLFLOWER’S UTILITY USERS’ TAX FOR 5
YEARS

Measure A, if approved by a majority of voters, would increase the City of
Bellflower’s existing Utility Users’ Tax (UUT) by 2% for 5 years to provide more
dependable revenue that is totally within local control and that the community
can rely on to continue to pay for important City services.

Background.

Since 1993, Bellflower residents and businesses have paid the UUT on
telecommunications, electricity and gas services. UUT revenues are paid into the
City’s General Fund and allocated by the City Council through the annual
budget for general City services, such as public safety, graffiti removal, gang and
drug prevention and enforcement programs, after-school activities, senior and
disabled residents’ services and library services. The current UUT rate is 5%.
Annual UUT revenues comprise approximately 17.5%, or $4.1 Million, of the
City’s General Fund annual revenues.

In recent years, Bellflower, other cities, the State of California, the nation and
much of the world have encountered dire financial circumstances. In an attempt
to deal with that, the City has made significant cuts to personnel, programs,
operating costs and capital expenditures. Even after implementing those steps,
the City’s expenses continue to outpace its revenues. The projected operating
budget deficit for the General Fund is $1.4 Million and growing. That deficit is
the result of unprecedented broad declines in City revenues, especially sales and
property taxes. Those declines are in addition to State government taking local
funds to balance the State’s $17 Billion deficit.

To ensure consistent, local revenue is available to the City to allow it to continue
to pay for vital local services, such as neighborhood sheriff patrols, drug and gang
prevention and enforcement, graffiti removal, school safety and after-school
programs, pothole repairs and other services, Measure A, if approved by the
voters, would increase the current UUT by 2% for 5 years.

Measure A would:

-	For the period from April 1, 2011, through March 31, 2016, increase the UUT
by 2%.

-	Require the UUT to return to 5%, automatically, on April 1, 2016, unless the
voters extend the increase for a longer period.

-	Permit the Council to lower or suspend the UUT rate, but not raise it without
another vote of the people.

-	Increase the City’s locally controlled annual revenue by approximately $1.6
Million for 5 years.

-	Maintain the existing exemption for low-income households; the Council may
temporarily expand exemptions, but not reduce or eliminate exemptions for
low-income households without voter approval.

-	Require an annual independent verification to confirm the UUT is being
properly collected, remitted and spent.

-	Not tax the use of the Internet. Federal law prohibits taxing that use and the

City’s UUT complies with that law.

Measure A requires approval by a majority of voters. A “Yes” vote approves a
2% increase in the City’s UUT for 5 years. A “No” vote disapproves that
increase.

<impartialend>