<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

In the City of Selma there is an existing 6% transient occupancy tax (TOT). The tax is
collected by the operators of Selma’s hotels, motels, inns, or other lodging
establishments and is paid by visitors, travelers and others who stay in our City. It is
not a direct tax on the residents of the City. The TOT has not been increased since
1982. On March 1,2010, the City Council of the City of Selma adopted Resolution No.
2010 - 7R calling for a city-wide municipal election, to be consolidated with the direct
primary election on June 8, 2010, on Measure "K” the "City of Selma Transient
Occupancy Tax Increase Measure." Measure "K" provides for an increase in the
transient occupancy tax from six percent (6%) to twelve percent (12%) of the rate
charged to the transient for the privilege of occupying any room or rooms in any hotel,
motel, inn, or other lodging establishment within the City for a period of less than thirty
(30) days. The measure and the implementing Ordinance No. 2010-1 adopted by the
Selma City Council will amend that part of existing City ordinances which imposes the
tax by increasing the tax rate from six percent (6%) to twelve percent (12%) and
changing the name of the existing City ordinance from the "Transient Room Tax
Ordinance" to the "Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance."

The City is authorized to impose the transient occupancy tax pursuant to Revenue and
Taxation Code §7280. The existing transient occupancy tax is a general tax; that is,
one that generates revenues for general governmental purposes. The 6% increase in
the tax, provided for by Measure K and the implementing ordinance, is a special
dedicated tax in that 30% of the increase is to be used to fund parks and recreation
programs and activities, 20% is to be used to fund arts and cultural activities, with the
remainder of the 6% increase to be used for general governmental purposes. Article
VIIIC of the California Constitution (Proposition 218) requires that the increase in the
tax rate be approved by a two-thirds vote of the electorate. In adopting the resolution,
which places this measure on the ballot, the City Council unanimously found that the
increase is necessary to fund the added expense of providing parks and recreation,
and arts and cultural activities to persons who are non-residents that stay in the City’s
hotels and motels.

<impartialend>