<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE Q

The City Council has placed before the voters the question whether to
approve an ordinance enacting a temporary transactions and use tax
within the City of Concord. The tax rate would be one-half of one
percent (0.50%) of the retail sales price, or one-half cent for an item that
costs one dollar. The tax would remain in effect for five years. A full copy
of the ordinance text is printed in these ballot materials.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Concord is 9.25% of the purchase
price. The City receives 0.75%. The remainder goes to the State
(7.25%), Contra Costa County (0.25%), the Contra Costa Transportation
Authority (0.50%), and BART (0.50%). Effective April 2, 2009, the State
increased the sales tax rate by 1%. That increase is scheduled to expire
on July 1,2011.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use
tax” and “transactions and use tax.” Both are levied on the sale or use of
tangible personal property sold at retail, with certain limited exceptions.
Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the
State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

This measure would authorize a 0.50% transactions and use tax, which
would increase the total sales tax rate to 9.75%. Of that total amount,
1.25% would be deposited in the City’s general fund and be available to
support the full range of municipal services. Because this measure does
not legally restrict the use of tax revenue to any specific purposes, it is
classified as a “general tax,” not a “special tax.” The tax proceeds may
be used for any valid municipal government purpose, including but not
limited to police services, street maintenance and repair, and senior and
youth programs.

The tax would automatically terminate five years after it becomes
operative, unless extended by the voters. If the State allows its 1%
increase to expire in 2011, the total sales tax rate in the City would be
reduced to 8.75%. After termination of the tax established by this
measure, the total sales tax rate would be further reduced to 8.25%.

This measure requires the City’s independent auditors to prepare a
publicly available report on the collection, management and expenditure
of revenue from the tax. Additionally, it requires the City Council to
appoint an oversight committee consisting of at least five members of the
public to review and report on the receipt of revenue and expenditure of
funds from the tax. The committee’s report and recommendations must
be a matter of public record and must be considered by the Council at a
public meeting as part of the annual budget process.

A “Yes” vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A “No” vote is a vote against
the tax. This measure will be approved if it receive a simple majority of
“Yes” votes.

<impartialend>