<impartial>

Impartial Analysis

The City Council of the City of Placerville has placed Measure H
on the November 2, 2010 ballot to ask voters to approve an
ordinance that would enact a temporary one-quarter of one
percent (0.25%) transactions and use tax within the City. If
approved, the tax would add a quarter cent to the price of an item
that costs a dollar, or $0.25 to the price of an item that costs $100.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Placerville is 8.5% of the
purchase price and if Measure H passes, the sales tax rate will be
8.75% within the City. Effective April 2, 2009, the State increased
the sales tax by 1%. That increase will expire on July 1,2011.


Technically, the existing "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and
use tax" and "transactions and use tax." With some exceptions,
both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property
sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit
the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers
the tax.

Measure H contains an expenditure plan which provides that the revenue from the tax may only be used to repay bond and State Revolving Fund debt incurred for improvements to the Hangtown Creek Water Reclamation Facility, and to fund water and sewer construction projects, including, but not limited to, line replacement.

Measure H also requires that the City Council appoint a five-
person committee made up of members of the public to review
and report on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax.

If adopted, the tax would become effective April 1,2011, and
would automatically terminate thirty years after collection begins,
unless extended by the voters. If the State allows its 1% increase
to sunset in 2011, the total sales tax rate in the City would drop to
7.75%. The total sales tax rate would further decrease to 7.5%
upon the expiration of this tax.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the quarter-
cent tax for 30 years with the revenue to be used only to repay
bond and State Revolving Fund debt incurred for improvements
to the Hangtown Creek Water Reclamation Facility and to fund
water and sewer construction projects, including, but not limited
to, line replacement. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax.
Measure H would be approve if it received a two-thirds (2/3)
majority of "Yes" votes.


<impartialend>