<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
The City Council of the City of Union City has placed Measure AA on the November 2, 2010 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a temporary one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax within the City. If approved, the tax would add a half-cent to the price of an item that costs a dollar, or fifty cents to the price of an item that costs $100.
Currently, the tax on retail sales in Union City is 9.75% of the purchase price. Union City receives only 0.75% of the revenue generated by the existing tax. The remainder of the tax goes to the State, the County and to transportation agencies. Effective April 2, 2009, the State increased the sales tax by 1%. That increase will expire on July 1, 2011.
Technically, the existing "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and use tax" and "transactions and use tax." With some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.
Measure AA would authorize a temporary one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax, which would increase the total sales tax rate to 10.25%. Of the total rate, 1.25% would go to the City's general fund and be available to support the full range of municipal services, including but not limited to police, fire, paramedic, library, streets and parks. Because Measure AA does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a "general tax," not a "special tax" that restricts the funds to specific purposes. The tax would terminate automatically four years after collection begins, unless extended by the voters.
A"Yes" vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the half-cent tax for 4 years, with oversight on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax, by a committee of members of the public. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax. Measure AA would be approved if it received a simple majority of "Yes" votes.
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure AA. If you desire a copy of the proposed ordinance, please call the City Clerk's office at 510-675-5448 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

<impartialend>