
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

Prepared by Rancho Cordova City Attorney

The Rancho Cordova City Council has placed Measure H on the
November 2, 2010 general municipal election ballot which asks
voters to adopt an ordinance that would amend Rancho
Cordova's Municipal Code to add a new Chapter 3.80 entitled
“Cannabis Business Tax."

If approved by a majority of voters at the November 2, 2010 election, Measure H would establish a new excise tax on cannabis
businesses that are authorized to operate within the City of
Rancho Cordova. Measure H defines cannabis businesses broadly to include all businesses that sell, cultivate, manufacture,
process, and test marijuana.

Under Measure H, cannabis businesses would be taxed at rate of
$120 for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts totaling $1 million or
less, and then $150 for each $1,000.00 of gross receipts over $1
million annually. For cannabis businesses that elect to obtain non-profit status, the tax rate would be $100 per square foot annually.

The proposed Cannabis Business Tax is a general tax, and therefore the revenues from the tax would be placed in the City’s general fund for the usual expenses of the City and then may be used
for general governmental purposes, such as providing code
enforcement and police services. Pursuant to Article (C),
Section 2 (b) of the California Constitution, in order for the
Cannabis Business Tax to be approved, the electorate must adopt
Measure H by a majority vote.

If approved by the voters of the City of Rancho Cordova on
November 2, 2010, Measure H, adding a new Chapter 3.80 entitled “Cannabis Business Tax" to Rancho Cordova Municipal Code,
would take effect only if Proposition 19, the "Regulate, Control and
Tax Cannabis Act of 2010" is adopted by the voters of the State of
California or if any other State or Federal law allowing such businesses is subsequently adopted. In addition, the tax would only be
imposed if the Rancho Cordova City Council allows for the establishment of cannabis businesses within Rancho Cordova in the
future. The Rancho Cordova Municipal Code currently does not
permit any type of cannabis business to operate within Rancho
Cordova.

A “yes” vote is a vote to adopt the Cannabis Business Tax.

A “no" vote is a vote against adopting the Cannabis Business Tax.

