<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance

The City Council of the City of Marina voted to approve the proposed measure and place it on the
November 2, 2010 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a 1% transactions
and use tax within the City of Marina. This type of tax is generally called a "sales" tax and it would be
collected in much the same manner as the existing statewide sales and use tax. This would be the
equivalent of a 1$ tax on an item that costs a dollar or $1.00 on an item that costs $100.00.

The tax can only go into effect if it is also approved by a majority of voters at the election. If approved,
then the first day for collection of the tax will be April 1, 2011. The measure provides that the City's
authority to impose this tax will expire five years following the date it is first imposed, that is on March
31, 2016.

This proposed transactions and use tax, like the statewide sales and use tax, would be imposed upon the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the City and on the storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer within the City. The proposed
tax follows many of the rules of the existing sales tax and is administered by the State Board of
Equalization.

The current statewide sales and use tax is 8.25%. Accordingly, the total tax rate for covered purchases
in the City would increase to 9.25%. The proposed City transactions and use tax could be reduced or
repealed earlier than five years by action commenced by the City Council.

The revenue generated from the proposed tax would be deposited in the City's general fund and
accordingly all monies collected could be used by the City for any general governmental purpose such as
firefighters, police officers, emergency response, recreation, youth and senior programs, gang violence
prevention programs, maintaining streets and parks and other municipal services.

A "YES" vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levying the 1% transactions and use tax for a period of
five years. A "NO" vote is a vote against the tax. Measure M would be approved if it received a
majority (over 50%) of "yes" votes of those voting.

<impartialend>