

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J

Prepared by Elk Grove City Attorney

LEGAL IMPACT

Background. Upon incorporation, the City of Elk Grove adopted
a Utility Users Tax ("UUT") identical to that used in the County of
Sacramento. The County’s UUT ordinance had been in effect for
many years prior to the City’s adoption of its text; the City has not
altered any of the ordinance authorizing the UUT in the intervening 10 years.

Because of recent changes in federal laws, some cellular telephone companies are challenging ordinances similar to Elk
Grove’s in court. The cellular telephone companies claim that
these federal changes should, in effect, remove the local UUT on
most telephone calls. In specific, telecommunication companies
are contesting the ability to tax call processing in the era of bundled services. Also, new technologies for telephone and video
services are evolving. These technologies didn't exist at the time
the UUT was adopted and therefore were not included in the existing ordinance. As users move to the new technology, UUT revenue from telecommunications and video services will decline.
Users who cannot, or do not choose to, use the new technology
will be taxed while others receiving the same service through
newer technology will not.

Effect. In substance, Measure J would do the following:

•	replace the existing telephone and video provisions of
the UUT with new ones that would not be affected by
changes in federal law and would apply equally to all
telecommunication and video services regardless of the
technology used.

•	reduce the maximum rate of the tax from 2.5% to 2.25%
on all taxed utility services (gas; electricity; telecommunications, including telephone and cellular telephone;
video services, encompassing cable television and wireless pay television; and sewer).

•	clarify the City's UUT collection and appeals procedures.

•	require annual outside expert audits to assure that the
UUT has been properly collected and accounted for.

Like the existing tax, the new tax would be a general tax, with all
proceeds deposited into the City's General Fund. It requires a
simple majority vote to pass.

A,”YES" vote is a vote to adopt the new UUT ordinance to replace
the existing UUT.

A "NO" vote is a vote to reject the new UUT ordinance and keep
the existing UUT.

FISCAL IMPACT

The legal and technology issues could reduce the City's projected
General Fund revenues by as much as $600,000 per year. The
General Fund pays for most of the City's police, code enforcement, animal control, financial and administrative services, and
some transit services. Some or all of these services could be
effected by the lost revenue. Measure J would prevent the loss of
those revenues.

