<impartial>

CITY OF PORT HUENEME
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE “G”

Measure G proposes adopting an ordinance that
would amend the existing telephone utility user tax
with an updated communications tax.

The utility users tax (or “UUT”) was first adopted in
1994. It is imposed on all persons using electricity,
water, telephone, cable television, and gas. Measure
G would only affect the telephone tax of the UUT; it
does not affect the existing UUT applied to electrical,
gas, cable television, and water services.

Significant technological advances since 1994
rendered the telephone tax less effective in taxing
technology that replaced the telephone; the tax is
not imposed on communication services and devices
that have increased in usage since 1994. Unless
precluded by federal statute, Measure G would
update the existing UUT to apply the telephone tax
to all types of communication and video delivery
services (for example, without limitation, electronic
program guide services and search functions).

A federal statute currently prohibits local taxation of
internet and broadband services providing access to
the internet. Measure G would not apply to digital
downloads such as music, games and ringtones.

Currently, the rate for the telephone tax is 4%.
Measure G would reduce the telephone tax rate to
3.75%. Revenues from this telephone tax -
approximately $290,842 in fiscal year 2008 to 2009
- can only be used for the City’s general
governmental purposes. The tax cannot be
increased in the future without voter approval.

Several federal court decisions in other states make
it unclear whether the telephone tax, as currently
written, can be imposed on long distance, cellular
and bundled telephone services. Several California
cities with taxes similar to Port Hueneme’s are
currently litigating this issue. Should California courts
determine that telephone taxes are inapplicable to
those services, the telephone tax revenues would be
reduced. Adopting Measure G would protect the City
from an adverse outcome in any such litigation.

To be adopted, Measure G must be approved by a
simple majority of the voters in the city of
Port Hueneme.

A “yes” vote on Measure G favors the Measure.

A “no” vote on Measure G opposes the Measure.

<impartialend>