<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H

Pursuant to Chapter 3.29 of the Santa Cruz Municipal Code, since 1984 City residents have paid a utility users tax on telephone, electricity, gas, cable television,
water, sewer, and trash collection service. The current tax rate is 7% of the amount
charged for each of these services. If this measure is adopted by the voters, the tax
rate would increase to 8.5%. The 8.5% tax rate could not be increased without
voter approval.

Post 1984 technology has rendered the City’s telephone tax less effective in taxing
communication services that have to a significant extent replaced traditional telephone service during this period. Unless precluded by federal law, this measure
would update the City’s existing telephone tax to apply to all types of telecommunication, video communication, text messaging, and paging services in addition to
the telephone, cellular telephone and voice over internet protocol (“VOIP”) services which are already taxed. This measure does not apply to digital downloads
(e.g., games, ringtones, music and books).

Federal court decisions in other states have recently created a concern as to
whether the City’s ordinance, as currently written, can be properly applied to long
distance, cellular, VOIP and bundled telephone services. Should an adverse decision be reached that is controlling in California, the revenues collected from the
City’s current telephone tax might be substantially reduced. This measure would
revise the current ordinance language so as to address this concern and thereby
strengthen the ordinance, thus serving to protect the City from such a potentially
adverse ruling.

The current ordinance contains a limited exemption in connection with its gas and
electricity tax only; the first $34 paid each month for this utility by certain low income individuals is tax exempt. This measure would authorize the City Council to
extend tax exemptions to other economically vulnerable residents including senior
citizens and would allow the City Council to apply such exemptions to other utilities
taxed under the ordinance besides gas and electricity.

This measure pertains to a general tax meaning that all new tax revenue would be
deposited in the City’s General Fund and be available to the City to pay for the provision of general municipal services to City residents including police, fire, emergency medical response, parks and recreation, and youth services.

This measure requires a simple majority “yes” vote for approval.

<impartialend>