<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The proposed ordinance is the enactment of a local transaction and use tax (sales tax) for the purpose of increasing revenues to assist the City in maintaining the financial viability of the City and
maintaining staffing and levels of service within the City.

The proposed ordinance contains findings that the City is experiencing an existing and immediate
funding crisis, which is the result of factors largely outside of its control and, that despite having taken
significant steps to reduce its operational costs as well as using available General Fund balance,
absent a new General Fund revenue source the budget deficit can only be met by further decreasing
police and other essential services. The ordinance finds that as a result, a fiscal emergency exists
within the City.

The ordinance, if enacted, would increase the sales tax rate by one-half of one percent (.5%) on and
after the effective date of the ordinance and would terminate in five (5) years unless extended by a
majority vote of the voters of the City. The ordinance requires the receipt and expenditure of revenue
from the tax to be included in the City’s annual audited financial statements which will be made
available to the public.

The tax is to be imposed on retailers for the selling of tangible personal property at retail and on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any re-
tailer. The proposed ordinance includes certain exemptions and exclusions from the computation of
the amount of the transactions and use tax on certain transactions.

Certain amendments to the proposed ordinance must be approved by the voters of the City of Cotati
and include any amendments increasing the tax rate or revising the methodology for calculating the
tax such that a tax increase would result; imposing the tax on transactions and uses not previously
subject to the tax (unless such amendment occurs automatically by operation of amendments to
State law provided however that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this initiative); or extending the tax beyond the fifth anniversary of the operative date.

Since the ordinance does not limit the City’s use of the revenue from the tax it is a general tax. State
law authorizes the City to implement this ordinance upon approval by a simple majority of voters who
vote on the measure.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by the proposed ordinance shall expire on the fifth anniversary
of the operative date unless extended by a majority vote of the voters of the City.


<impartialend>