<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

Measure H, if approved by the voters, would enact in Carson a Transactions and
Use Tax (commonly referred to as a “Sales Tax”) which would have the effect of
increasing the current sales tax rate by one percent (1%) (also known as a “10
sales tax”), and authorize collection of the tax by the State Board of
Equalization. This increase in the sales tax rate is estimated to raise between $11
and $12 million annually based on current levels of sales tax generation.

Measure H was placed on the ballot by a unanimous vote of the City Council
following the adoption of a declaration of fiscal emergency. The declaration of
fiscal emergency projects a budget deficit in excess of $9 million in each of the
next five years unless new funding sources are obtained.

The declaration also found that, in last fiscal year, the City cut $3.3 million from

its proposed budget. The declaration also found that, in the 2010/11 fiscal year
budget, law enforcement staffing levels have been reduced, the annual summer
youth employment program suspended, and City-sponsored cultural, fine arts,
and city-wide community events have all been canceled. City-wide tree trimming
has been suspended. Due to current economic conditions, the State’s budget
deficit, and other recessionary indicators, this “structural budget deficit” is
expected to grow without new funding sources.

If Measure H is approved, all funds would be deposited into the city’s general
fund. Historically, in Carson the largest expenditure from the general fund is
used to contract for law enforcement services provided by Los Angeles County
Sheriffs Department. Other examples of typical uses for general fund revenues
include street and sidewalk repair, tree trimming, maintenance of public parks
and facilities, city recreational and park programs, senior programs, graffiti
removal, and City-sponsored cultural, fine arts, and other city-wide community
events.

A “Yes” vote means you support an increase in the sales tax rate in Carson by 1 %
(an added H sales tax). A “No” vote means you oppose an increase in the sales
tax rate in Carson by 1 % at this time. This measure would take effect only if a
majority of those voting on the ballot measure cast a “Yes” vote at the
November, 2010, special election. The added le sales tax rate would be subject to
annual independent audits, the proceeds from the tax could not be “seized” by
the State, and the tax would end five (5) years from the date of enactment (or in
2016) unless extended by another vote of the voters of Carson.

<impartialend>