<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from the city attorney

Summary. Measure T is proposed by the Mountain View City
Council to update the City's existing Utility Users Tax ("UUT")
so that it can be applied equally to both older phone technology
and to newer telecommunication technology at the current rate
of 3 percent. The proceeds of the UUT can only be spent on
City services.

Background. The UUT is levied on utility users in the City.

Since 1970, the City has imposed the UUT on telephone
communication services. Measure T will not increase the
current rate of 3 percent.

The City's UUT Ordinance, like those of most California cities
with telephone UUTs, was written before new
telecommunication technologies like "smart" cell phones or
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) became available. The tax
ordinance was also written before recent changes to Federal
law.

The Measure. The measure would include new technologies
and would apply the UUT to all intrastate, interstate and
international communications, regardless of the technology
used to provide such services. As a result, private
telecommunication services used by businesses would be
treated the same as traditional telephone services used by
ordinary consumers. Measure T would continue the existing
UUT on telephone communication services, including landline,
wireless, VoIP, and nonexempt and exempt services bundled
together for a single price unless the provider separates the cost
of the nonexempt and exempt services.

Measure T would not apply to internet access or video
programming services, e-mail or digital downloads of books,
music, ringtones, games and similar digital products.

Measure T does not increase the current UUT rate of 3 percent.

Voter approval would be required for any future increase in the
rate or scope of services subject to the UUT. Like the existing
UUT, Measure T proposes a general UUT with its proceeds
deposited into the City's General Fund. UUT revenues help
finance such services as fire protection, rapid emergency
response, crime and gang prevention, Library hours and help
maintain City parks, playgrounds and athletic fields. Measure T
provides for audits to confirm the UUT is properly collected
and spent according to the requirements of Measure T and
other laws. Audit reports will be available to the public.

Measure T also reorganizes and updates the collection and
refund procedures for all users, including telecommunications,
gas and electricity users.

Measure T requires approval of a majority of voters. A "yes"
vote for Measure T is a vote in favor of adopting the amended
UUT Ordinance. A "no" vote against Measure T will reject the
proposed amendments to the UUT Ordinance, and continue the
UUT in its current form.

<impartialend>