<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from Newark City Attorney
Measure "U" is proposed by the Newark City Council to place a Utility Users Tax on the November 2, 2010, Election Ballot for voter consideration. The Utility Users Tax is a general tax required to be used to support local City of Newark services. If approved by more than fifty percent (50%) of the voters voting in the election, the Utility Users Tax Ordinance would impose a three and one-half percent (3.5%) utility users tax on telecommunication services (including landline telephone and cell phone services), video services (including cable television), electricity and gas consumption. The tax would expire on December 31, 2015. Water, sewer, and garbage utilities are not taxed. Internet service and satellite television are also not taxed.
Senior citizens of seventy (70) years old or more and low income persons of any age are exempt from the tax, upon application and approval by the Tax Administrator. Government agencies such as the Newark Unified School District and Ohlone College are also exempt. The definition of each utility service and a description of how the tax is calculated are more particularly described in the Ordinance. In general, utility companies would collect the tax from consumers as part of their regular utility bills and would remit the taxes to the City.
The measure would generate a reliable, protected revenue source to support and maintain Newark city services. Revenues from Measure "U" are legally required to be used in Newark for essential city services and under current law cannot be taken by the State of California or Alameda County.
The utility users tax is a general tax with its proceeds deposited in the City's General Fund. Such funds would be available to the City for all of its programs and public services, such as police services and patrols, crime prevention, anti-drug and gang-prevention programs, fire protection and 9-1-1 emergency services, senior services, youth programs, park maintenance and street and pothole repair and other general services, for the City of Newark. The Ordinance includes a requirement for annual financial audits of tax collection and expenditures to be performed by a qualified, independent third party. The results of the annual audits will be available to the public.
A "Yes" vote on Measure "U" means the voter is in favor of authorizing the City to collect a three and one-half percent(3.5%) utility users tax for five (5) years. A"No" vote on Measure "U" means the voter is not in favor of the City collecting such a utility users tax.
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure "U". The full text of the measure which includes the complete text of the City of Newark Utility Users Tax Ordinance will be printed in the Voter Information Pamphlet and also is available on the City of Newark website, http://www.newark.org.

<impartialend>