<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
Transient Occupancy Tax

This ballot measure, if adopted by City of Marina voters, would amend the City of Marina Municipal Code
by raising the transient occupancy tax rate to 12% from the current rate of 10%. The transient
occupancy tax is a tax paid only by hotel and motel guests who spend 30 consecutive days or less in a
hotel or motel in the City. The tax is on the rent paid for each room. The tax is collected by the hotel or
motel operator and remitted to the City of Marina. The tax is not imposed upon property owners.

If Measure N is approved by the voters, persons staying at hotels and motels in Marina will pay $2.00
more for each $100 of the room charge per day. For example, if Measure N is approved, a hotel room
charge of $100 per day will result in the hotel guest paying a transient occupancy tax in the amount of
$12.00 instead of $10.00.

The tax increase can only go into effect if it is approved by a majority of voters at the election. If
approved, then the first day for collection of the increased tax will be January 1, 2011. The measure
provides that the City's authority to impose the increase will expire five years following the date it is first
imposed, that is on December 31, 2015, whereupon the transient occupancy tax rate would return to
10%. The increase in the City transient occupancy tax rate could be reduced or repealed earlier than
five years by action commenced by the City Council.

Revenue generated by the transient occupancy tax has been, and will continue to be, deposited in the
City's general fund, which means that the money may be used by the City for any general governmental
purpose such as firefighters, police officers, emergency response, recreation, youth and senior programs,
gang violence prevention programs, maintaining streets and parks and other municipal services.

A "YES" vote is a vote to enact an ordinance increasing the transient occupancy tax from 10% to 12%
for a period of five years. A "NO" vote is a vote to maintain the transient occupancy tax at the existing
rate of 10%. Measure N would be approved if it received a majority (over 50%) of "yes" votes of those
voting.

<impartialend>