<impartial>



In response to the fiscal emergency declared by the City Council of
Cathedral City on February 24,2010, the City's voters are being asked to
vote on Measure “H”, which, if approved, would enact an ordinance
imposing a one-percent (1%) transactions and use tax on all retailers
doing business in the City. If approved, Measure “H” would expire five
years after the date it first took effect.

The proposed tax is a general tax, the proceeds of which would be
deposited in the City’s general fund to be used for general governmental
purposes, such as City operations, police and fire services, street
sweeping and repair, paramedics, parks and recreation, emergency
response services, capital projects and other essential services.

If approved, the City estimates Measure “H" will generate $3 million
dollars annually for essential City services. The proposed tax would be
imposed on retailers for the selling of tangible personal property at retail

and on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer, subject to certain
exclusions and exemptions which are detailed in the proposed ordinance
implementing the tax.

Currently, the combined sales and transactions and use tax rate in the
City including the 1 % temporary tax imposed by the State of California
which expires on July 1, 2011 is 8.75%. Of this 8.75%, the State
receives 7.25%, the Riverside County Transportation Commission
receives .50%, and the remaining 1.00% is divided among the City and
Riverside County. If the voters approve the proposed tax, the new Iota)
tax rate for most purchases in the City would increase to 9.75%, but only
until July 1, 2011 when the rate would decrease to 8.75% due to the
expiration of-the State’s temporary tax. The proposed tax would be paid
in addition to the currently-existing faxes described above, and would be
collected in the same manner and at the same time as such taxes.

The proposed ordinance provides for independent review of the
revenues generated by the tax by the Citizens’ Financial Advisory

Committee, and requires annual financial audits performed by a
qualified, independent third party, the results of which would be available
for public review.

The proposed tax is a general tax, requiring a majority vote (approval by
more than fifty percent (50%) of City voters voting in the election) for
passage.

A. “Yes” vote means the voter is in favor of Measure “H” authorizing the
City to collect a 1 % transactions and use tax for a period of five years.

A “No" vote means the voter is not in favor of Measure “H” authorizing the
City to collect a 1% transactions and use tax for a period of five years.



<impartialend>