<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition L proposes to adopt an ordinance to establish and implement a Business Tax to be
paid to the City of Solana Beach by each business located in or doing business in Solana Beach.
Revenues from the business tax would be deposited in the City's general fund, which will be used
to fund law enforcement and fire protection, parks and recreation programs, street repairs, and
capital improvement program projects.

The tax would apply only to businesses that conduct business in Solana Beach as authorized by
Government Code section 37101(a). It would not apply to 501(c)(3) non-profit organizations, owners
of less than 5 rental residential units, or to residents not engaging in a business in the City.

Under Proposition L, the annual tax rates are:

•	Residential property rentals of 5 or more units will pay a flat annual rate of $25 for each
residential rental unit.

Home-Based businesses will pay a flat rate of $75 annually.

•	All other businesses, the taxpayer may elect to pay a flat rate or a multiplier based on gross
receipts. The proposed measure contains a minimum fiat tax of $50 and a maximum flat tax
of $1,675 for those businesses earning $5,000,000 or over.

The ordinance also provides for an annual increase by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the
San Diego Region, California beginning April 2012 with a maximum cap of 2% per year. The City
Council may, on any given year, reduce or suspend the collection of the business tax.

The annual taxes are calculated based upon business activities during the prior calendar year.
Taxes are due on July is of each year and delinquent on July 31st. The ordinance has a delayed
implementation schedule for 2010 with the first payment due on October 15,2010 and delinquent
on January 15, 2011. In addition, the business tax due for 2010 is reduced and would be
charged at 50% of the usual rate.

Proposition L imposes a general tax and will take effect, if passed, by a simple majority (50%-t-1)
of voters casting a vote on the measure.

<impartialend>