<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE E

The City Council of the City of Larkspur placed Measure
E on the November 2, 2010 ballot to ask voters to extend
the existing special parcel tax for paramedic services
(“Paramedic Tax”) for an additional 4 years.

In 1983, the voters of Larkspur, along with the other voters within the Ross Valley Paramedic Authority (“Authority”), initially approved the Paramedic Tax. Voters have
approved extensions and increases in the Paramedic Tax
since that time. The current Paramedic Tax was approved
by voters in 2006, and authorizes a maximum rate of $48
for each residential living unit and for each 1,500 square
feet of non-residential developed space. It is currently
levied at $42 (plus a $.50 Marin County administrative
fee), less than the approved maximum rate. The authority
for the Paramedic Tax is set to expire on June 30, 2011
unless it is extended by the voters.

Measure E would authorize continuing the levy of the
Paramedic Tax for another 4 years, and also authorize an
incremental increase of $3 each year for a maximum rate
not to exceed $51 in the fourth year (plus the Marin
County administrative fee) for each living unit and for
each 1,500 square feet of non-residential developed space.
As a special tax, the Paramedic Tax is restricted to use for
paramedic purposes, including but not limited to emergency response, training, cost of medical supplies and
equipment, and replacement of ambulance transport units.
The Paramedic Tax would terminate automatically in 4
years, unless extended by a subsequent vote of the voters
within the Ross Valley Paramedic Authority.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the extension of the
Paramedic Tax for 4 years and authorize an incremental
increase of $3 per year for a rate not to exceed $51 in the
fourth year. A “no” vote is a vote against extension of the
Paramedic Tax. Measure E will be approved if it receives
a two-thirds majority of “yes” voters.

<impartialend>