<impartial>


TOWN ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE "U"

Under existing law, the Town of Mammoth Lakes ("Town") imposes a
Utility Users Tax on electrical, gas and telephone usage at the rate
of two and one-half percent (2 1/2%) . This tax expires on June 30, 2011.

Measure "U" would to extend the Utility Users Tax beyond June 30,
2011. From and after June 30, 2011, the Utility Users Tax would
continue to be imposed and collected at the present rate of two and
one-half percent (2 1/2%). Tax revenue collected after June 30, 2011
would be deposited into a special fund. Such tax revenue could be
used only for planning, construction, operation, maintenance,
programming and administration of facilities and projects for
Mobility, Recreation, and Arts & Culture (hereafter "The Approved
Purposes"). The Town could borrow upon anticipated tax revenue, so
long as the money that is borrowed is used for the The Approved
Purposes. Tax revenue collected cannot be used to supplant existing
funding for The Approved Purposes.

Annually, the Town's independent auditors must compile an audit
report which assesses whether or not the tax revenue collected has
been properly managed and expended. The audit report will be reviewed
by the Tourism and Recreation Commission, or such other commission or
committee as may be designated by the Town Council, sitting as an
audit review committee. Such review shall include confirmation that
all tax revenue is used for The Approved Purposes.

At least annually, the Tourism and Recreation Commission, or such
other commission or committee as is designated by the Town Council,
shall conduct a public hearing and make recommendations to the Town
Council as to how tax revenue, as has not earlier been committed,
should be expended. The Town Council shall consider such
recommendation prior to expending such tax revenue, which expenditure
must be for Approved Purposes.

If Measure "U" passes, the Utility Users Tax will be extended
beyond June 30, 2011 at the current rate of two and one-half percent
(2% %). Tax revenue collected after June 30, 2011 shall only be used
for planning, construction, operation, maintenance, programming and
administration of facilities and projects for Mobility, Recreation,
and Arts & Culture.

If Measure "U" fails, the Utility Users Tax will expire on June
30, 2011.

A "Yes" vote is a vote to extend the Utility Users Tax beyond
June 30, 2011 at the present rate of two and one-half percent (2 1/2 %).
Tax revenue collected after June 30, 2011 shall be used only for
planning, construction, operation, maintenance, programming and
administration of facilities and projects for Mobility, Recreation,
and Arts & Culture.

A "No" vote is a vote not to extend the Utility Users Tax, and to
allow it to expire on June 30, 2011.

<impartialend>