<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF LA PALMA
MEASURE U

This initiative, if approved by the voters of La Palma, would authorize the La Palma City Council annually to reduce the rate of the City’s Utility Users
Tax to a lower rate than the law currently allows.

In March 2002, the voters of the City of Le Palma passed an initiative ordinance confirming and approving a. 5% Utility Users Tex that had been In
effect since 1393, Under the tax approved In 2002, utility service providers collect from La Palma, residents and businesses 5% of the amounts billed for
telephone, electricity, gas, and cable television and related cable services, and remit those moneys to the City. All of this proceeds from the tax ere placed in
the City’s general fund and used for the usual current expenses of the City. Certain persons and entities, including persons and families qualifying as”Very
low income," may be exempted from the tax.	

The Utility Users Tax ordinance requires the City Council to review the Utility Users Tax on an annual basis, in conjunction with its consideration of
the City general fund budget for the upcoming year. If it determines that the City’s financial condition will not be adversely affected, the City Council may
reduce the Utility Users Tax rate by up to 1% (thereby reducing the tax rate from 5% to 4%) for the upcoming fiscal year, after which (he tax reverts to 5%
unless the City Council acts again to reduce the tax rate for the next fiscal year.

If approved, this Initiative will authorize the City Council annually to reduce the Utility Users Tex rate paid by La Palma utility users from the currently
allowed reduction of up to 1% to a new reduction of up to 475%, If the Initiative Is approved, the La Palma City Council would have the authority to reduce
on an annual basis the Utility User Tax rate from 5% to a rate not lower than one quarter of one percent (0.25%). If the initiative is not approved, the La Palma
City Council will continue to have the authority »reduce the Utility Users Tex from a rate of 5% to a rate not lass than 4%.

This Initiative will take effect ten days following the date on which the La Palma City Council declares that the Initiative was approved by a majority of
the La Palma voters voting on the measure at the November 2,2010 general municipal election.

<impartialend>