<impartial>

MEASURE V
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City of Ontario currently imposes a transient occupancy tax (“TOT”), also known
as a hotel room tax, at the rate of 11 3/4 percent of the rent paid by guests to occupy a
room or other space in a hotel or other temporary accommodation (referred to
throughout this analysis as a “hotel”). This tax is imposed upon paying guests of
hotels within the City for occupying a room or other hotel space, for dwelling, lodging,
or sleeping purposes, for a period of thirty consecutive days or less. The passage of
Measure “V” would amend the City’s Municipal Code to increase the TOT rate by one
percent and establish the rate at 12 3/4 percent. The new TOT rate would be collected
by operators of hotels at the time rent is paid by guests for occupying a room or other
space in a hotel. Measure “V” also would amend the City’s Municipal Code to include
online travel agents as “operators” of hotels for the purpose of collecting the City’s
TOT from guests who purchase occupancy of a room or other space in a hotel via the
Internet, or by similar electronic means. The Municipal Code would be further
amended to clarify that the rent paid for a room or other hotel space includes room
rates, service charges, parking fees, purchase price, advance registration,
assessment, retail markup, commissions, processing fees, cancellation charges,
attrition fees, or online booking fees.

Measure “V” is a general tax and may be used for any general governmental purpose
of the City, such as fire and paramedic, and police services; street maintenance;
graffiti removal; and maintenance of parks. In order for the City to adopt the
amendments to its Municipal Code described above, Measure “V” must be approved
by a majority vote of the votes cast by the voters voting on the ballot proposition.

A “yes” vote on Measure “V” will authorize the amendments to the City’s Municipal
Code, including increasing the TOT rate by one percent and establishing the rate at
12 3/4 percent.

A “no” vote on Measure “V” will prohibit the City from adopting the amendments to its
Municipal Code, including increasing the TOT rate by one percent and establishing the
rate at 12 3/4 percent.

<impartialend>