<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

Prepared by Sacramento City Attorney

Measure B would enact an ordinance amending sections
13.04.720, 13.08.400, and 13.10.130 of the Sacramento City
Code. These sections authorize the Sacramento City Council to
set monthly rates for water, sewer, and garbage collection service
(the “subject utility rates”). Measure B would amend these City
Code sections to repeal increases in the subject utility rates that
the City Council approved in June 2009, and that took effect on
July 1, 2010. If Measure B is enacted, the repeal of these rate
increases would take effect July 1, 2011, so that on and after
July 1, 2011, the subject utility rates would be set at the rates in
effect on February 10, 2010. In addition, Measure B allows the
City Council to increase the subject utility rates beginning on and
after July 1, 2012, but limits any such increases to the annual
increase in a specified consumer price index, unless approved by
the voters.

Current law requires the subject utility rates to be calculated
based on the City of Sacramento’s costs of providing the utility
services. These costs include operation and maintenance costs
(such as fuel, utilities, chemicals, and labor); costs to -repair,
replace, or improve utility infrastructure; and costs to comply with
applicable regulatory and other governmental requirements. By
reducing the subject utility rates to the rates in effect on
February 10, 2010, the operation of Measure B would reduce the
rate revenues available to fund these costs.

In addition to the cost-of-service limitation described above,
current law requires the City to follow specified notice, protest,
and public hearing procedures prior to the City Council’s approval
of increases in the subject utility rates, but does not require voter
approval of those increases. Measure B would impose a new limitation on the City’s ability to increase the subject utility rates, by
requiring voter approval for rate increases that exceed the annual
increase in the consumer price index specified in Measure B.

A “yes” vote is in favor of enacting the ordinance rolling back
the subject utility rates and preventing the City Council from
adopting future rate increases that exceed the annual increase in
a specified consumer price index unless approved by the voters.
A “no” vote is against enacting the ordinance, and would leave
unchanged the subject utility rates and the City’s current rate set-
ting authority. A majority of “yes” votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>