<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
The City Council of the City of San Leandro has placed Measure Z on the November 2, 2010 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a temporary one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) transactions and use tax within the City. If approved, the tax would add a quarter- cent to the price of an item that costs a dollar, or $0.25 the price of an item that costs $100.
Currently, the tax on retail sales in San Leandro is 9.75% of the purchase price. The City receives only 0.75% of the revenue generated by the tax, however. The remainder goes to the State (7.25%), Alameda County (0.75%), the Alameda County Transportation Improvement Authority (0.50%), and BART (0.50%). Effective April 2, 2009, the State increased the sales tax by 1%. That increase will expire on July 1, 2011.
Technically, the existing "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and use tax" and "transactions and use tax." With some exceptions, both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.
This Measure, if approved by the voters, would authorize a 0.25% transactions and use tax, which would increase the total sales tax rate on retail sales in San Leandro to 10%. Of the total rate, 1% would go to the City's general fund and be available to support the full range of municipal services. Because this Measure does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a "general tax," not a "special tax" that restricts the funds to specific purposes. Therefore, as explained in the ballot question, the City may use the funds for a range of services, including but not limited to maintaining current levels of fire and 9-1-1 emergency response times; neighborhood police patrols, investigation, and gang suppression officers; library programs; street and pothole repairs; and youth afterschool and senior programs.
The tax would terminate automatically 7 years after collection begins, unless extended by the voters. If the State allows its 1% increase to sunset in 2011, the total sales taxrate in the City would drop to 9%. The total sales tax rate would further decrease to 8.75% upon the expiration of this tax. The Measure requires the City Council to appoint a fiveperson committee of members of the public to review and prepare a public report on the revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax.
A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the quarter-cent tax for 7 years, with oversight by a committee of members of the public. A"No" vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure would be approved if it receives a simple majority of "Yes" votes.
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Z. If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the City Clerk's office at 510-577-3367 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

<impartialend>