<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “S”

Measure “S” relates to the City of Indio's existing voter-approved utility
users’ tax (UUT) on electricity, gas, water, telecommunication services,
and video services. It relates exclusively to the rate of the tax.

Except as discussed below, Measure “5” will raise the current UUT rate
by three percent (3%). The UUT is a general tax. The revenue that it
generates is deposited into the City’s General Fund. The City projects
that during fiscal year 2010-2011, sixty-six percent (66%) of the City’s
$44.3 million General Fund budget funds public safety. General fund
public safety dollars support police, fire, paramedic ambulance service,
code enforcement, graffiti removal, animal control, crime and drug
prevention programs, and emergency response improvement programs.
The remaining third of the City’s General Fund budget supports street
repair, sweeping and maintenance, park maintenance parks, youth and
senior programs and other government services. Per current law, one
hundred percent (100%) of UUT revenue collected per Measure “S” will
be spent to benefit the City of Indio; none of this revenue will be available
to the State of California for any purpose.

If approved, Measure “S” will help the City to maintain funding and/or
service levels for the services referenced above, e.g., police, fire,
ambulance response, road and park construction and maintenance and
youth and senior programs. The measure continues the existing
exemption for senior and disabled persons eligible to receive
Supplemental Security Income via the Social Security Administration.

Measure “S" will add a reporting requirement to the City’s continuing
obligation to perform an annual UUT audit. The independent auditor will
issue an annual public report about the City’s management of all UUT
revenue. In addition, Measure “S” will require that the auditor verify that
City records related to UUT comply with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles established by the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board, or report otherwise.

Measure “S” requires the City to appoint a “Citizens’ Finance Advisory
Commission” that will receive, review and analyze the auditor’s annual
report, and then issue a public recommendation to the City Council for
action that responds to any irregularities detected in the audit.

Cable television is currently subject to UUT at the rate of three percent
(3%). Per federal law, satellite television is not subject to UUT. Measure
“S” will not raise the UUT rate applicable to cable television.

The voters’ choice is whether to increase the utility user’s tax rate from
three percent (3%) to six percent (6%). A majority “yes” vote increases
the tax rate, while a majority “no" vote rejects the proposed tax rate.
Stated more generally, a “yes" vote means that you favor adopting the
measure summarized above, while a “no” vote means that you are
against its adoption. A majority of “yes” votes is required for the measure
to be enacted.

<impartialend>