<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE C

If approved by the voters, this measure would adopt a
new City of San Rafael ordinance imposing a new Special
Library Services Parcel Tax on all residential and non-residential parcels in San Rafael, the proceeds of which
would be used exclusively for services and facilities for
the San Rafael Public Library.

If approved by the voters, the special parcel tax would
be imposed each year for seven years starting in fiscal year
2010-2011, at the rate of $49 per parcel for single family
residential parcels; $49 per parcel for nonresidential
parcels; and $49 per parcel plus $10 per living unit for
multifamily residential parcels up to a maximum of
$1,000 per year. The tax would be included on and payable
with the property owner’s Marin County property tax bill.

The measure would provide an exemption from the
tax, upon approved application to the City’s Library
Director, for any person at least 65 years old who owns a
parcel used solely for owner-occupied single-family residential purposes.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
used only locally to staff, provide, maintain, and improve
hours of operation, services, equipment, facilities, and
materials at the San Rafael Public Library; to provide and
improve Library programs and materials for children,
teens, adults, seniors, literacy learners and people with
disabilities; and to help with the City of San Rafael’s long-
term goal of setting aside funds for necessary facility
improvements to the San Rafael Public Library.

The measure would require that the tax proceeds be
placed into a separate account subject to an annual report
by the City’s Finance Director.

The measure would require that the City Council, with-
in 60 days after the election, establish an independent citizens’ oversight committee to review the collection and
expenditure of special tax revenues, with duties to be
established by resolution of the City Council.

To become effective, this measure must be approved
by two-thirds of the electors voting at the election.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>