<impartial>

MEASURE A
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council of
the City of Redlands to levy a General Transactions and Use Tax (commonly called a
“sales tax”) if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all
members of the Redlands City Council, and the tax is approved by a majority of the
City’s voters. Ordinance No. 2737 of the City of Redlands proposing a General
Transactions and Use Tax in the amount of one-half of one percent (14 cent per dollar)
for a period often (10) years was approved by the City Council on July 29, 2010.

Measure “A,” if approved by the City’s voters, would approve the additional 1/2-cent
sales tax proposed by Ordinance No. 2737 on each dollar of taxable sales of goods in
the City of Redlands, and on the storage, use or consumption in the City of Redlands
of goods purchased from a retailer. The tax will be deposited into the City’s general
fund, and may be used for general municipal governmental purposes, including police,
fire and emergency response; paving, maintaining and repairing City streets; reducing
crime and criminal gang/drug activity; trimming trees and keeping public areas well
maintained. Measure “A” does not obligate the City to use the proceeds of the tax for
any particular services, facilities or programs. The City’s Finance Department
estimates that the annual revenue to the City generated by the tax would be
$3.8 million dollars.

The 1/2-cent sales tax would be in addition to the existing State sales tax, and would be
collected in the same manner. Presently, the State sales tax rate in Redlands totals
8.75 cents per dollar. The State Board of Equalization also presently reports that 1
cent of the existing State sales tax is effective only through June 30, 2011.

A vote to approve Measure “A” would increase the sales tax in the City of Redlands by
1/2-cent, over the State sales tax rate, for a period of 10 years. A vote to reject
Measure “A” would leave the existing sales tax in the City of Redlands unchanged.

Measure “A” and Ordinance No. 2737 require the City to establish an independent
citizens' financial advisory committee which shall meet at least annually. Also, each
year, Measure “A” requires that an independent auditor complete a financial
compliance audit report to include the revenue raised by the 14 cent sales tax and the
expenditure of the proceeds of the 1/4 cent sales tax.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 2, 2010 election, the 1/4 cent
sales tax authorized by Measure “A” would become operative on April 1, 2011. A
“YES” vote will approve the Measure. A “NO” vote will reject the Measure.

<impartialend>