<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE SP


Measure SP, titled the “Pomona Utility Users’ Tax Emergency Increase
Measure,” is a voter-initiated measure, submitted to the voters of the City of
Pomona to increase revenues available for public safety services such as police
and fire protection, public parks, recreation programs, and other City programs
and services.

Background:

The City of Pomona currently imposes a nine-percent (9%) tax on telephone,
electricity, gas and water usage in the City. The tax on these utility services is
commonly known as the “Utility Users’ Tax” or “UUT.” Payment of this tax is
required by every person, company, business, and association that uses such
utilities. The UUT generates approximately twenty-two percent (22%) of the
City’s General Fund revenue, which is used to provide public safety services such
as police and fire protection, public parks, recreation programs, library services,
public works projects, and other City programs and services.

The Measure:

If adopted, Measure SP would amend the provisions of Pomona City Code to
increase the current nine-percent (9%) UUT tax rate by two percent (2%) for an
initial period of two (2) years and two (2) months. The increased revenues would
fund the City’s General Fund. At the end of the two-year and two-month initial
period, the UUT tax rate would automatically be suspended back to the current
nine-percent tax rate, unless the Pomona City Council overrides the suspension
by a 6/7ths vote.

In addition, if adopted, the Measure would provide an exemption for payment of
the UUT for those persons who are “legally disabled,” as that term is defined in
the proposed ordinance.

Measure SP requires approval by a majority of voters. A “Yes” vote for Measure
SP will authorize the two percent (2%) increase in the UUT tax rate for the
initial period of two (2) years and two (2) months as described above, and will
authorize the exemption for payment of the UUT for those persons who are
“legally disabled.” A “No” vote against Measure SP will keep the current UUT
tax rate the same, and will not provide the exemption for payment of the UUT
for those persons who are “legally disabled.”

<impartialend>