<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

PROPOSED ORDINANCE ENACTING A LOCAL
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX OF ONE-HALF OF ONE
PERCENT (.5%) FOR FIVE YEARS

If adopted by a majority of the voters, this initiative measure will enact legislation (an ordinance) imposing a local
transaction and use tax (sales tax) for the purpose of
increasing revenues to assist the City in maintaining the
financial viability of the City and maintaining staffing and
levels of service within the City.

The proposed ordinance contains findings that the City is
experiencing an existing and immediate funding crisis,
which is the result of factors largely outside of its control
and, that despite having taken significant steps to reduce
its operational costs as well as using available General
Fund balance and reserves, absent a new General Fund
revenue source the budget deficit can only be met by further decreasing police and other essential services. The
ordinance reiterates that as a result, a fiscal emergency
exists within the City.

The ordinance, if enacted, would increase the sales tax rate
by one-half of one percent (.5%) on and after the effective
date of the ordinance and would terminate in five (5)
years. The funds derived from the sales tax would be
placed in the General Fund and may be used for a variety
of purposes, including but not limited to maintaining 911
emergency response times and neighborhood police
patrols, supporting senior and youth services, and/or maintaining city parks, playgrounds, and other facilities.

The tax is to be imposed on retailers for the selling of tangible personal property at retail and on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer. The proposed ordinance
includes certain exemptions and exclusions from the computation of the amount of the transactions and use tax on
certain transactions, including those exemptions already
applicable under State law.

The ordinance requires the City Council to appoint an
oversight committee consisting of members of the public
to review and report on the receipt of revenue and expenditure of funds from the tax. The committee’s report and
recommendations must be a matter of public record and

must be considered by the Council at a public meeting as
part of the annual budget process.

Since the ordinance does not limit the City’s use of the
revenue from the tax it is a general tax. State law authorizes the City to implement this ordinance upon approval
by a simple majority of voters who vote on the measure.

<impartialend>