<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure H asks the voters whether the City of Reedley should amend its current
Transient Occupancy Tax charged to customers staying in a hotel or recreational
vehicle campground in the City. In 1990 the voters approved a Transient Occupancy
Tax of 8.0% to be charged at all hotels in the City with 40 or more rooms, and at all
recreational vehicle campgrounds in the City with accommodations for 60 or more
recreational vehicles.

Measure H asks the voters if this tax should be charged at more hotels/motels and
recreational vehicle campground locations in the City. Measure H does not include
an increase to the Transient Occupancy Tax. Measure H asks the voters if the
Transient Occupancy Tax should be charged at all hotels/motels in the City with 4 or
more rooms and any recreational vehicle campground in the City with 6 or more
accommodations for recreational vehicles. Measure H must be approved by a
majority of the voters. If Measure H is not approved, the tax will remain unchanged
and still be charged at all hotels in the City with 40 or more rooms, and at all
recreational vehicle campgrounds in the City with accommodations for 60 or more
recreational vehicles.

The tax is currently implemented through Ordinance No. 736, previously adopted by
the City Council on July 10, 1990. If Measure H is approved by a majority of voters,
proposed Ordinance 2010-05 will be adopted by the City Council. Thereafter, the tax
will be charged to persons staying in any hotel in the City with 4 or more rooms and
any recreational vehicle campground in the City with 6 or more accommodations for
recreational vehicles. The tax will continue to be paid by the person staying in the
hotel or campground on a temporary basis, not exceeding a 30-day stay.

The Transient Occupancy Tax is a general tax to be used for general governmental
purposes of the City of Reedley. The proceeds of the tax will continue to be placed
in the City’s general fund and may be used for the current expenses of the City as
determined by the City Council in making budgetary decisions. The City would not
be legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any
particular program or service.

<impartialend>