

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Richmond, like most California cities, imposes a license fee (tax) on those who do business in
the city. For most businesses, the tax is $234.10 a year plus $46.80 per employee for the first 25
employees and $40.10 per every additional employee.

Measure N would impose an additional business license tax measured by the amount of sugar-sweetened drinks served, provided or traded by businesses in the city. The tax would be one cent
per ounce of sugar-sweetened drink.

A business "serves, provides or trades" a sugar-sweetened drink when it:

Serves a sugar-sweetened drink to a consumer, including consumer self-service;

Dispenses or allows a consumer to dispense a sugar-sweetened drink from a vending machine; or

Permits a consumer to remove sugar-sweetened drinks from the business premises.

A "consumer" is any person, including a customer, employee or guest, who purchases, receives
or takes a sugar-sweetened drink at a place within the city to drink it. Consumers are not required
to pay the tax. Instead, the tax is paid by the business. Businesses subject to the proposed tax
would include restaurants, fast food outlets, supermarkets, convenience stores, hotels, vending
machine operators.

A "sugar-sweetened beverage" is any non-alcoholic drink, whether or not carbonated, intended
for human consumption, which contains any added sweetener other than a diet sweetener.
Non-diet sodas, energy drinks, fruit drinks containing high fructose corn syrup, and sweet teas
are all examples of sugar-sweetened drinks.

Zero calorie sodas, black coffee, unsweetened tea or iced tea, unsweetened bottled water and
fruit juices (including juices reconstituted from concentrate or powders) containing no added
sweeteners (other than diet sweeteners) are not sugar-sweetened beverages. If a consumer, rather
than a business, adds sweetener to a drink (as by adding sugar to coffee or tea), that does not
make the drink a sugar-sweetened beverage for purposes of the tax.

The following businesses are exempt from the tax:

Any business that the City may not tax under federal or state law;

A business of a person under the age of 18 with fewer than $500 in annual gross receipts (such as
a child operating a lemonade stand); and

A business consisting of a natural person who acquires sugar-sweetened beverages solely (1) for
consumption at his or her residence, (2) for his or her own consumption, or (3) for the
consumption of members of his or her immediate family.

Tax proceeds will be placed in the City's general fund and can used for any lawful city purpose.
While the proposal allows the City Council to amend the tax ordinance, a vote of the people is
required to increase or decrease the tax rate or increase or significantly decrease the range of
businesses or drinks to which it applies.

A simple majority of those who vote on the question will decide it. If approved, the tax will take
effect on January 1, 2013.

