<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF CITY MEASURE G
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Measure G reauthorizes a one-half of one percent (0.5%)
Transactions and Use (sales) Tax measure that was
previously approved by the voters of the City of Williams to
fund essential City services. The existing Transactions and
Use (sales) Tax will sunset automatically on March 31,2013
unless reauthorized by the voters. The revenue from the tax
under Measure G will continue to be used to fund general
government services in the City of Williams including,
without limitation, police services, fire protection services,
park improvements and maintenance, youth programs,
graffiti abatement, street maintenance and repairs, traffic
improvements, and library services.

This tax would be adopted as a general tax. As a result,
revenues from the tax would be placed in the City’s General
Fund. Measure G is intended to prevent significant cuts to
general City services, such as those listed above, resulting
from revenue shortfalls caused by decreased state funding
and other recent economic factors. Further, since this is a
local tax adopted by the citizens of Williams, the resulting
revenue cannot be taken by the State of California, County
of Colusa or other governmental entity.

State law authorizes cities to adopt transactions and use
(sales) tax ordinances with voter approval and to have those
taxes administered by the State Board of Equalization. The
tax would be paid in addition to current State sales tax and
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as the existing sales tax. Pursuant to state law, Measure G
has been placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City
of Williams to ask the voters of Williams to reauthorize the
tax at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%).

By placing Measure G on the ballot, the City complies with
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution (Proposition 218),
which requires the voters to approve an ordinance which
establishes a general tax. This measure must be approved
by a majority of the voters.

<impartialend>