<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY, CITY OF ARCATA

Measure I would impose a 45% tax on excessively high residential
electricity usage, pursuant to City of Arcata Resolution No. 112-52. The tax would
be imposed only on residential usage which exceeds 600% over the established
“baseline allowance."

The “baseline allowance” is established by the California Public
Utilities Commission (CPUC) in order to ensure a low cost to residential users
for a minimum quantity of electricity. It reflects an average quantity of residential
electricity use measured in kilowatt hours (kWh) of electric power. The CPUC
designates the “baseline allowance" for specific climate-based regions within the
different service territories.

The average residential household use in Arcata uses 5,868 kWh per
year. Electricity usage at 600% over the “baseline allowance” equals more than
three times this average usage. Out of a total 9,500 residential meters in Arcata,
633 meters exceeded 600% over the “baseline allowance” in 2011 and would
have been subject to the tax if it had then existed.

The Measure proposes an exemption for those on an extended “medical
baseline,” which is an extra allowance of electricity at the lowest billing rate
established by the CPUC for residential users who rely on life support equipment,
who have life threatening illnesses, or who have compromised immune systems.
No exemption would be provided to low-income residential customers.

The tax is consistent with the City’s Community Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Plan which established a greenhouse gas emission target of 20% below
2000 emission levels to be achieved by 2012. Emission inventories completed
for years 2000 and 2006 indicate that residential electric use in Arcata increased
by 30% per year over this time period. The City’s Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Plan includes implementation measures to conserve or reduce electrical energy
including encouraging adjustments to personal behavior and living patterns.

Based on 2011 usage data, the tax would net approximately $1,249,000
per year, and is expected to decrease over time as residential customers implement
energy efficient measures. PG&E would be responsible for collecting the tax and
remitting it to the City as it does currently with the City’s 3% utility users tax.
PG&E estimates its cost to the City to implement the Excessive Electricity Users
Tax to be a one-time amount not to exceed $650,000.

If approved by a majority of the voters at the November 6, 2012,
election, the ordinance would go into effect upon adoption. There will be an
unspecified delay before the tax is charged to and collected from residential users
to allow PG&E to implement its collection procedures. The tax will automatically
terminate 12 years after its adoption.

A YES vote approves the measure.

A NO vote rejects the measure.

<impartialend>