<impartial>

Impartial Analysis of Measure J

The City Council of the City of Half Moon Bay has placed Measure
J on the November 6, 2012 ballot to ask the voters to approve
temporary one-half percent (0.50%) sales tax within the City. If
approved, the tax would add one-half cent to the price of an item
that costs a dollar, or fifty cents to the price of an item that costs one
hundred dollars.

Currently, the sales tax rate in Half Moon Bay is 8.25% of the
purchase price. The City, however, receives only l%of this 8.25%.
The remainder goes to the State of California (6.25%) and County
of San Mateo County (1%).

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and
use tax” and “transactions and use tax,” which are levied on the sale
or use of tangible personal property sold at retail. Retailers collect
the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of
Equalization, which distributes the tax. This Measure, if approved
by the voters, would increase the tax rate on retail sales in Half
Moon Bay to 8.75%.

Because this Measure does not limit the use of tax revenue, it is a
“general tax,” not a “special tax” that restricts the funds to specific
purposes. Therefore, the City may use the funds for a range of
services including, but not limited to, repaving streets and fixing
potholes; maintaining public libraries and services; improving law
enforcement services; parks and recreation programs; and youth
afterschool and senior programs.

The ordinance will automatically expire and tax will no longer be in
effect 3 years after collection begins, unless extended by the voters
after another election. On the November 6, 2012 ballot, a ten year,
one-half percent (0.50%) sales tax measure is also proposed by the
County of San Mateo, and a four year, one quarter percent (0.25%)
sales tax increase is proposed by the State of California. If all three
measures are approved by the voters, the total sales tax in the City
of Half Moon Bay will increase to 9.5%.

This half page intentionally left blank

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the half-cent
tax for 3 years, with oversight by a committee of members of the
public. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure would
be approved if it receives a simple majority of “Yes” votes (more
than 50%).

<impartialend>