<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

(BUSINESS LICENSE TAXES)

Measure M will approve the “Artesia Local Services Ordinance” which is an
update to the City of Artesia’s existing business license tax ordinance (“BLT
Ordinance”). It will increase the business license tax that is paid to the City for
some service, retail, wholesale, professional, contracting and manufacturing
businesses. Additionally, this Measure will remove obsolete business categories,
add new categories, and establish a first-time application investigation and
inspection fee. All small businesses (those having gross annual receipts of less
than $150,000) will be exempt from any tax increase or payment of the
investigation or inspection fee, except a few that are subject to the payment of a
flat fee regardless of their financial size.

Service, retail, wholesale, professional and local contracting businesses currently
pay a business license tax based on their annual gross receipts. This Measure will
increase the tax rate for such businesses having annual gross receipts of $150,000
or more. For example, a service business having annual gross receipts between
$200,000 and $249,000 will pay $350 in business license tax, which is $110 more
than is paid under the existing BLT Ordinance.

Manufacturing businesses currently pay a business license tax based on their
number of employees. If this Measure is approved, those businesses will pay the
tax based on their gross annual receipts, truck trips, or building floor area,
whichever factor produces the greater tax amount. Small manufacturing
businesses having less than 10 employees and less than $150,000 in gross annual
receipts will not pay an increased tax. Certain types of businesses and
occupations pay a “flat rate” tax. The tax amount for some of those businesses
will increase.

This Measure will also: (1) require an independent annual audit of the City’s use
of the tax revenues; (2) establish a five-member City Council appointed Citizens
Oversight Committee to review the City’s use of the tax revenue; (3) authorize
the City Council to reduce the tax rates; and (4) allow the City Council to
increase the tax rates based on Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) changes in the
future. This Measure will not permit the City Council to raise the tax rates
beyond a CPI change without additional voter approval.

Revenue generated by the business license tax will continue to be deposited into
the City’s General Fund, which means that revenue may be used for general City
governmental purposes, such as police, gang prevention, street repairs and other
services. If this Measure is adopted, the tax increase will take effect January 1,
2013, and is estimated to raise approximately $300,000 in additional business
license tax revenue per fiscal year.

A “Yes” vote on Measure M is a vote to approve the Artesia Local Services
Ordinance and increase business license taxes on some businesses. A “No” vote
on Measure M is a vote to maintain the BLT Ordinance as it now exists. This
Measure will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on
this Measure.

<impartialend>