IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “Z”

Measure‘T would add Chapter 3.18 to the Wildomar Municipal Code
entitled “Save Wildomar Community Parks Funding Measure.” The
Measure would establish a dedicated funding source to pay for the
operation, maintenance and repair of Wildormar’s community parks and
related facilities, programs and services.

The Measure creates an annual special tax of up to $28 on each
Assessor's parcel of real property in the City of Wildomar. The tax
revenue will be restricted to pay for the repair, operation and
maintenance of Wildomar's community parks and related facilities,
programs and services. For example, the Measure specifies that tax
proceeds must be used for Wildomar community park purposes such as
maintaining safe playground equipment, public restrooms and sports
fields as well as restoring safety lighting and removing graffiti at
community parks.

The tax revenue must be used locally within the City of Wildomar, such
as at Mama O’Brien Park. The funds also must undergo annual financial
audits. In addition, each year the City Council will receive a report that
accounts for the tax’s proceeds and expenditures and describes the
types of facilities, programs and services funded.

The Measure requires the formation of a five-member Citizens Oversight
Advisory Committee. This Oversight Committee will advise the City
Council regarding the collection and expenditure of tax revenues
collected.

A “Yes’ vote on Measure “Z“ means the voter is in favor of the creation of
a dedicated funding source for Wildomar’s community parks and related
facilities, programs and services by means of an annual special tax of up
to $28 per year per Assessor's parcel.

A “No" vote on Measure “T means the voter is opposed to the creation of
a dedicated funding source for Wildomar’s community parks and related
facilities, programs and services by means of an annual special tax of up
to $28 per year per Assessor's parcel.

Two-thirds (66%) of the qualified voters casting a “Yes" vote would
approve Measure “Z".

