<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

Crime Prevention, Safety, Library and Essential Services Measure

The City Council of the City of Salinas has placed this measure on the November 6, 2012 ballot to ask the voters to extend
indefinitely an existing one-half of one percent (0.5%) general transactions and use tax within the City of Salinas (also known
as "Measure V"). This measure does not increase the existing transaction and use tax within the City; however, it proposes to
continue Measure V indefinitely beyond its current expiration date of April 1, 2016.

The existing tax is the equivalent of a half-cent (1/2 cent) tax on an item that costs one dollar ($1.00) or fifty cents ($.50) on an
item that costs $100.

The revenue generated from the proposed tax would be deposited in the City's general fund and, accordingly, all monies
collected would be used by the City to pay for the usual and current City general public services such as police, fire safety,
paramedics, libraries, recreation, and street and park maintenance. As such, this ballot measure is a "general tax," rather
than a "special tax."

The current cumulative tax rate on retail sales in the City is 7.75%. The City receives the equivalent of one and one-half
percent (1.5%) of the current tax rate, with the rest going to the State and other local government agencies. One-half of one
percent (0.5%) of that rate comes from the locally controlled transactions and use tax approved by Measure V. The
transactions and use tax, like the sales and use tax, is levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail.
The total tax rate for most purchases in the City would remain the same at 7.75%, 1.5% of which will continue to go to the
City on a permanent basis, if the voters approved the measure. If voters disapproved the measure, in 2016, the cumulative
rate would be 7.25%, of which the City would receive the equivalent of 1%.

The ballot measure also continues provisions for an independent oversight committee and an annual audit. The Mayor and
City Council shall each continue the annual appointment of one member of the public to serve as an oversight committee for
the revenue that the City receives from the existing tax and to report and recommend the use thereof to the City Council.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve the permanent extension of the existing ordinance levying the one-half of one percent
(0.5%) general transactions and use tax, with oversight by an independent committee of Salinas residents and an annual
audit. A "no" vote is a vote against the indefinite extension of the tax. Measure E would be approved if it received a majority
(50% +1) of "yes" votes.

<impartialend>