<impartial>

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The City Council of the City of Orinda has placed Measure L on the November 6, 2012 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance that would enact a temporary one-half cent transaction and use tax (commonly referred to as a sales tax). If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the Measure, collection of this sales tax would begin in 2013 and terminate automatically after 10 years.
California law provides that a general tax can be passed by a simple majority, while a special tax, which is dedicated to specific purposes, must be passed by a two-thirds vote. The one-half cent sales tax proposed by the Measure would be a general tax, which means that all proceeds would be deposited in the City's General Fund and could be used by the City for any municipal governmental purpose. Municipal governmental purposes include road maintenance and repair, storm drainage improvements, other infrastructure projects, police protection, library facilities, public works, programs for seniors, parks and recreation services, and other city services. The Measure does not bind the City to use the proceeds from the proposed sales tax for any particular services, facilities, or programs.
The proposed one-half cent (0.5 percent) sales tax would be levied in addition to and in the same manner as the other legally authorized sales taxes currently collected in Orinda. The current cumulative sales tax rate in Orinda is 8.25 percent. Retailers collect sales taxes at the time of sale and remit the funds to the State Board of Equalization, which administers such taxes and allocates the proceeds between the State and various local governmental entities, including the City of Orinda, based on applicable legal mandates. All proceeds from the sales tax proposed by the Measure would be allocated to the City of Orinda.
The Measure requires the City Council to establish a Citizens Oversight Commission to review the expenditure of proceeds from the proposed sales tax. In addition, the Measure requires that proceeds and expenditures associated with the proposed sales tax be included in the annual audit of the City s financial operations, which is conducted by a certified public accountant.
A "Yes" vote is a vote to approve the enactment of the one-half cent sales tax for 10 years. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure would be approved if it receives a simple majority of "Yes" votes.

<impartialend>