

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
This initiative ordinance would amend the Palo Alto Municipal Code to permit three medical marijuana dispensaries to operate in Palo Alto in any commercial or industrial zone subject to prescribed zoning criteria.
In 1996, California voters enacted Proposition 215, the Compassionate Use Act, which exempts patients and their primary caregivers from criminal liability' under State law for possession and cultivation of marijuana for personal medical use. Subsequently, the State Legislature adopted the Medical Marijuana Program Act, which also exempts patients and caregivers who participate in medical marijuana collectives or cooperatives from State criminal liability for possession and cultivation.
The Federal Controlled Substances Act prohibits possession, cultivation, and distribution of marijuana. Federal 1aw contains no exception for medical use.
In 1996, the City Council adopted an ordinance prohibiting medical marijuana dispensaries in Palo Alto. Currently, there are no dispensaries operating in Palo Alto.
The proposed ordinance would amend the Palo Alto Municipal Code as follows.
First, the ordinance would require the City to issue three medical marijuana dispensary permits, and to have three permits issued and outstanding at all times. Permits would be issued for one year and could be renewed annually.
The ordinance would require dispensaries to comply with certain operating requirements, including:
	•	dispensaries may only operate between 9:00 am and 10:00 pm;
	•	no person under 18 may be admitted unless the person is a patient and accompanied by a parent or guardian;
	•	no marijuana may be consumed on the premises;
	•	cultivation may occur on the premises provided it occurs in a "secure, locked, and fully enclosed structure, including a ceiling, roof or top;" and
	•	the facility must provide adequate security. 
Second, the ordinance would allow medical marijuana dispensaries in any commercial or industrial zone, except that no dispensary would be permitted within 150 feet of any residential zone, within 600 feet of any public or private school, or within 500 feet of any public library, public park, licensed day care center, or substance abuse rehabilitation center.
Third, the ordinance would impose a tax of 4 cents per dollar on the gross receipts of all medical marijuana dispensaries.
The establishment and regulation of medical marijuana dispensaries has been the subject of extensive litigation that is ongoing. As of August 21st, there are four cases pending before the California Supreme Court relating to cities' ability to permit, regulate or ban medical marijuana dispensaries.
The Charter provides that initiative measures go into effect 10 days after the Council conducts the official canvass of the election.
A vote "For the Ordinance" will amend the Palo Alto Municipal Code to permit three medical marijuana dispensaries to operate in Palo Alto in any commercial or industrial zone subject to prescribed zoning criteria. A vote "Against the Ordinance" will not amend the Municipal Code.
This ordinance will become effective if a majority of those voting on the measure vote in favor.
