<impartial> 

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Ballot Measure P asks the voters of the City of Fairfield to approve
a transactions and use tax ordinance (the “sales tax ordinance”)
that would increase the City’s existing sales tax rate by 0.1% or
one cent for every dollar of taxable sales of goods in the City, and
on the taxable storage, use or consumption in the City of goods
purchased. The total sales tax rate currently paid in the City of
Fairfield, which also includes the sales tax rate collected for the
State of California and the Solano County Library, is 7.375%. If
Measure P is approved by the voters, the total sales tax rate in the
City will increase to 8.375%.

The proposed tax is a general tax. The tax revenues will be
deposited in the City’s general fund and may be used for any
municipal purpose. The City Council declared a fiscal emergency
and unanimously voted to place this sales tax measure on the ballot
at a special election of the City in order to fund public services
such as police and fire protection, street maintenance and park
and recreation facilities as well as other general City services. It is
estimated by the City’s Finance Director that this measure will raise
approximately SI 2 to $13 million per year in general fund revenue
for the City beginning in the 2013/2014 fiscal year.

The tax is subject to an independent annual financial audit that
will review whether the tax is collected, managed and expended
in accordance with the requirements of the proposed ordinance.
In addition, the sales tax ordinance requires the City Council to
establish an independent Fairfield Taxpayer’s Committee to review
the expenditure of the tax revenues raised by the proposed tax. If
adopted by the voters, the tax would be in effect for five years and
terminate on March 31,2018. A full copy of the text of the sales tax
ordinance is printed in these ballot materials.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, commonly known
as Prop. 218, requires that the proposed tax be approved by a
majority of the voters voting on the ballot measure. A “yes” vote on
Measure P enacts the sales tax ordinance. A “no” vote will result
in the tax not being adopted.

<impartialend>