<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

THE PROPOSAL: Measure G asks the voters whether the City of
Trinidad should extend its 0.75% (three quarters of 1 %) increase of the transaction
and use tax rate (commonly known as the “sales tax”) for an additional four years.
Voter approval of this Measure would continue the" of this 0.75%
tax as described below, for a period of four years only, effective April 1, 2013
through March 31,2017.

HOW IT GOT HERE: The City of Trinidad first adopted a 1 % increase
in the local sales tax by a majority vote of its citizens approving “Measure A” on
April 13,2004, implementing the tax for a period of four years only. The tax first
took effect on January 1,2005, and expired on December 31,2008. The City of
Trinidad then adopted a %% increase in the local sales tax by a majority vote of its
citizens approving “Measure I”. This %% tax took effect on April 1,2009 and will
expire March 31,2013.

HOW IT WORKS: The local sales tax in the City of Trinidad-
-including the additional %% approved by the voters-is imposed only on (1)
sales of most retail goods that occur within the boundaries of the City of Trinidad,
or (2) certain items (e.g., cars) purchased outside of the boundaries but only if
the purchaser lives within the boundaries of the City of Trinidad. The way it is
imposed, what it is imposed on, and the procedure for collecting it are all governed
by state law. It does not apply to items which state law exempts from sales tax.

HOW IT IS USED: The sales tax is a general tax; all revenue generated
by the local sales tax goes into the City’s General Fund where it is used to fund
essential government services provided by the City. These services include, but
are not limited to, police and fire protection, street and public facilities, park, trail
and environmental maintenance and protection, and services provided by the
Town Office. Police and fire protection support services are also provided through
these funds to surrounding communities on a limited basis. The %% sales tax
generates approximately $100,000 per year to the City of Trinidad’s General Fund.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: A "Yes” vote will continue the existing
additional %% local sales tax through March 31,2017.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: A “No” vote will allow the additional %%
local sales tax to expire on March 31,2013.

<impartialend>