<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Currently, the City of Del Mar ("City") does not regulate or tax medical marijuana compassionate use
dispensaries, nor does it authorize the operation of dispensaries. The proposed proposition would
regulate and tax medical marijuana dispensaries in the City. The proposition would allow dispensaries
(as defined in the proposition), to operate in the City according to the regulations and requirements set
forth in the proposition.

The regulations for dispensaries would include a number of operational requirements, including, but not
limited to, security requirements; adequate lighting; limited hours of operation; storage, packaging and
display requirements; consumption prohibitions; and age restrictions. The proposition would limit
where dispensaries may operate, generally prohibiting them from operating within a 600-foot radius of
accredited kindergarten through twelfth-grade schools or playgrounds or in any land use zone
permitting residential uses, and requires them to be spaced at least 1000 feet apart. The City's Planning
and Community Development Department would process and issue dispensary permits.

The proposed proposition also imposes a two and one-half (2-1/2%) percent sales tax on every
transaction of medical marijuana, which would be reduced to one percent (1%) if a statewide tax is
imposed on such transactions. The proposition also states that qualified patients, primary caregivers
and certain individuals associated with such dispensaries who comply with the ordinance and applicable
state laws may not be arrested or prosecuted by any law enforcement personnel.

A legal question exists as to whether the proposition's taxation provisions, which propose a unique City
tax on medical marijuana higher than the uniform sales tax rate imposed by California law, would
require the Board of Equalization to cease collecting all sales taxes in Del Mar.

Additionally, legal questions exist as to whether California and/or federal law allow for operation of
dispensaries in the manner authorized by the proposition, including: (1) because marijuana is illegal
under federal law, whether the City would be in violation of state and/or federal law by issuing
dispensary operating permits called for by the proposition; (2) whether City employees who issue
permits called for by the proposition might be prosecuted by the federal government for violating
federal criminal law; and (3) whether the proposition improperly purports to amend state criminal law
by altering the ability of law enforcement to arrest and prosecute individuals for violations of California
criminal law.

Finally, a legal question exists as to the accuracy and effect of representations in the proposition and the
circulation of the proposition, including representations regarding the residency of the proposition
proponent and the current state of the law relating to medical marijuana.

<impartialend>