<impartial>

MEASURE S
CITY OF NEEDLES

IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS	FOR	MEASURE	S

This Impartial Analysis for Measure S has been prepared by the City
Attorney pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

Measure S, if approved by a majority of voters, will enact an ordinance taxing
marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of their gross receipts, for the privilege of
conducting business within the City of Needles (“City”). This tax will be in addition to
the current business tax imposed on businesses in the City. The marijuana business
tax will tax gross receipts from the planting, cultivation, harvesting, transporting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, processing, preparing, storing, packaging,
and wholesale and retail sales of marijuana and ancillary products in the City, whether
or not carried on for profit.

This tax will not take effect until the City Council, by ordinance, sets the rate of the tax,
which cannot exceed 10% of gross receipts. The City Council may, at any time, set a
lower tax rate for all marijuana businesses or establish differing tax rates for different
categories of marijuana businesses, subject to the maximum rate of 10% of gross
receipts. The City Council may also increase the tax rate from time to time, provided
the rate set does not exceed 10% of gross receipts.

This Measure does not legalize or otherwise permit marijuana businesses in the City.

The revenues from the tax imposed by Measure S will be deposited in the general fund
and will be subject to the annual audit performed by the City’s independent auditor
which is reported in the City’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.

A “yes” vote is a vote to permit the City Council to impose, by ordinance, a new
business tax on marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of gross receipts in
addition to the current business tax.

A “no” vote is a vote not to permit the City Council to impose, by ordinance, a new
business tax on marijuana businesses at a rate of up to 10% of gross receipts.

<impartialend>