<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

Prepared by Sacramento City Attorney 

Measure U, if approved by a majority of the voters, would
enact an ordinance that provides for a 1/4-cent tax on each dollar
of taxable sales of goods within the City of Sacramento, and on
the taxable storage, use, or consumption in the city of goods purchased from a retailer. This is commonly referred to as a “sales
tax" and technically referred to as a "transactions and use tax.”
As a general tax, the revenues would be deposited into the city’s
general fund and could be used for any municipal government
purpose, including police and fire services, 911 response, park
maintenance, gang and youth violence prevention, youth services, senior services, libraries, and other programs.

The 1/4-cent tax would be in addition to the existing sales tax,
and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as the existing sales tax. Currently, the combined state and local
sales tax rate in the City of Sacramento is 7.75%. If this measure
is approved by the voters, the combined rate would be 8.25%.

If approved, the 1/4-cent tax would go into effect on April 1,
2013, and expire on March 31, 2019. After that time, the 1/4-cent
tax authorized by this measure would no longer be imposed.

The revenues resulting from this tax would be subject to the
same independent annual audit as other genera! fund revenue.
Additionally,.the ordinance requires the establishment of a citizens
oversight committee to review the revenue and expenditure of
funds from the tax.

State law authorizes the city to levy this 1/4-cent tax following
approval of the ordinance by two-thirds of the city council and a
majority of the voters voting on the issue. The Sacramento City
Council approved the ordinance on July 24, 2012.

A “yes" vote is in favor of approving the ordinance establish-
ing the tax. A "no” vote is against approving the ordinance establishing the tax.

<impartialend>