

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

If approved, Measure “H” will establish a business license fee that will be
imposed on each El Monte business that serves, provides or trades sugar
sweetened beverages at a rate of one (1) cent per fluid ounce of such sugar
sweetened beverages served, provided or traded by the business during the year.

Proponents of the business license fee believe its imposition will result in the
reduced consumption of sugar sweetened beverages, which in turn will help
reduce incidences of obesity and the various related health problems and
associated medical costs that come with obesity. Opponents question whether the
fee will result in reduced incidences of obesity and further express concern over
the fees possible economic impact on businesses and consumers.

As used in the measure, “sugar sweetened beverage” means any nonalcoholic
beverage, whether or not carbonated, which contains added caloric sweetener,

e.g. non-diet soda drinks. “Sugary sweetened beverage” does not include
Pedialyte, Ensure, Lucerne and Pediasure, or other similar nutritional
supplement drinks or rehydration beverages for children and/or seniors.

It is also estimated by City staff that the business license fee will generate
between $3.5 to $7 million in general tax revenues for the City of El Monte
(“City”) which the City could use to address fiscal challenges brought about by
the elimination of Redevelopment and other adverse economic conditions.

The business license fee is a general tax under Article of the California
Constitution because the proceeds of the tax may be used for any

governmental/municipal purpose, including but not limited to park and street
maintenance, recreational programs, the restoration of emergency reserves and
public safety and emergency response services. Because the business license fee
is a general tax it may be approved by a simple majority of those who vote at the
City’s upcoming Special Municipal Election of November 6, 2012.


If approved by the voters, the City will enact an ordinance implementing the
business license fee.

Voting “YES” for Measure H means:	The voter wants a business license fee to be imposed on City businesses in the amount of one (1) cent per fluid ounce of sugar sweetened beverage served, provided, or traded.
Voting “NO” for Measure H means:	The voter does not want a business license fee to be imposed on City businesses in the amount of one (1) cent per fluid ounce of sugar sweetened beverage served, provided, or traded.

