<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

Background

As a result of the current statewide economic downturn and
resulting decline in sales and property tax revenues and the
elimination of redevelopment agencies by the State of California,
the City of Vacaville has experienced a reduction in revenue, which
has required the City to reduce its work force by approximately
twenty-five percent (25%), decrease employee salaries and
benefits, and curtail expenditures on equipment, supplies, and
services, resulting in a reduction of City services and facilities
provided to persons living and working in Vacaville. Despite these
reductions in expenditures, the City’s general fund is projected to
have a deficit of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2013-2014 and $2.7
million in fiscal year 2014-2015. The deficit is projected to continue
beyond fiscal year 2014-2015.

The Measure

The City Council of the City of Vacaville has placed this Measure
on the ballot, asking voters to approve a temporary one-quarter
cent transactions and use tax for a period of five years. The tax,
commonly referred to as a “sales tax”, would increase the current
sales tax rate by a quarter of a cent, from 7.375% to 7.625% for
five years.

With some exceptions, the sales tax is levied on the sale or use
of tangible products purchased by residents and visitors to the
City, such as clothing, household products, and other goods. The
tax, however, is not levied on all sales, such as the sale of many
grocery products.

Sales tax rates differ throughout California, generally ranging from
7.25% to 8.75%. Currently, the total existing tax on retail sales
in Vacaville is 7.375% of the purchase price. The City receives

0.75%% of the revenue generated by the sales tax, with the
remainder going to the State (6.25%), Solano County (0.25%), and

the Solano County Library (0.125%). This Measure would increase
the City’s share of the sales tax from 0.75% to 1% for five years.
The additional tax is a local tax. Its revenue stays with the City and
may not be taken or used by any other governmental agency, such
as the state or federal government. Should the state or federal
government seek to take or use all or any portion of the tax, the
Measure provides that the tax will be reduced or not collected in
order to offset such taking or use.

Use of Proceeds

The Measure is a general tax, not a special tax. Therefore, the
City may use the revenue for general municipal purposes such as
police and fire protection, gang suppression, ambulance service,
street repair, park maintenance, recreation programs, public parks,
sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride Senior Center,
the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis Community
Center, the Vacaville Performing Arts Theater, funding for local
libraries, and other services and facilities that promote the public
health, safety, and welfare of Vacaville residents.

Fiscal Impact

As noted, the Measure would levy an additional quarter-cent tax
sales tax on certain retail sales for a period of five years to help
avoid further reductions in City services and facilities.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the additional quarter-cent tax
for five years. A “no” vote is a vote against the tax. This Measure
requires a simple majority of “yes” votes to become effective.

<impartialend>