<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “R”

The City of Indian Wells formed eighteen landscape and
lighting maintenance assessment districts (“HMDs) to fund the

maintenance of landscape and lighting improvements within the City's
public rights-of-way on Highway 111, Cook Street, and Eldorado Drive
(“Improvements”). In 1991, the HMDs were consolidated into one
district (the “HMD No. 91-1”), which has eighteen zones. Although the
Improvements maintained within HMD No. 91-1 are located throughout
the City, not all City property owners pay assessments for their
maintenance.

Measure “R” proposes the adoption of an ordinance
authorizing the City to impose a parcel tax on all taxable property within
the City for the specific purpose of funding the maintenance and
servicing of the Improvements located in LLMD No. 91-1. The parcel tax
would be imposed at a rate of $171 per taxable parcel commencing July
1, 2013. For each fiscal year beginning fiscal year 2014-15, the
maximum allowable parcel tax could be increased, as needed, by the
percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers (“CPI-U”), for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County
area for the year ending the preceding December 31, capped at 3%. If
for any reason the percentage change in the CPI-U is negative, the
maximum allowable tax could not be decreased and would remain at the
amount as computed for the previous fiscal year. If the City Council
determines that an adjustment for inflation is not necessary in any given
fiscal year, the City Council would not be obligated to increase the parcel
tax in that fiscal year.

If the parcel tax is approved by the voters, commencing July 1,
2013, the City will suspend the imposition, levy, and collection of the
special benefit assessments on residential parcels within LLMD No. 91-1
for so long as the parcel tax is imposed, levied, and collected by the City.
Because there are additional costs for maintaining certain improvements
that specially benefit non-residential parcels in Zones A8, A11 A, A11C,
and E of LLMD No. 91-1, the special benefit assessments for
non-residential parcels within these zones would not be suspended.

In order for the City to adopt the proposed parcel tax and
resulting suspension of assessments on residential lots in LLMD No.

Measure “R” must be approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in
the election on Measure “R".

A “yes” vote on Measure “R" authorizes the City to (1) impose
the parcel tax, commencing July 1,2013, at the rate of $171 per taxable
parcel per year; and (2) provide for annual inflationary adjustments of the
tax capped at 3%.

A “no” vote on Measure “R” prohibits the City from (i) imposing
the parcel tax commencing July 1,2013, at the rate of $171 per taxable parcel per year; and (ii) providing for annual inflationary adjustments of
the tax capped at 3%,

<impartialend>