<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

The Culver City City Council has placed Measure Y on the ballot, which would
approve an ordinance enacting a temporary one half-cent (0.5%) transactions
and use tax within the City of Culver City for a period of ten years. This type of
tax is also commonly referred to as a “sales” tax. If the measure is approved by
the voters, some of the services and programs that may receive funding include:
police, fire, senior services, streets, parks, recreation and other general city
services. This tax is a “general tax,” not a “special tax,” and may be used for any
valid municipal purpose. Such general tax revenues will be deposited into the
City’s General Fund and will not go to the State.

Currently, the State and local sales tax in Culver City is 8.75% of the purchase
price. The City of Culver City receives one percent (1.0%). The remaining 7.75%
goes to the State and County. If Measure Y is adopted, the total Culver City
sales tax rate would be 9.25%, with the City receiving one and one-half percent
(1.5%) and the remaining 7.75% going to the State and County. The temporary
one half-cent (0.5%) tax would be effective April, 2013 and would automatically
expire after ten years in 2023, unless extended by the voters at a subsequent
election.

Technically, the existing “sales tax” is a combination of “sales and use tax” and
“transactions and use tax.” Both are levied on the retail sale or use of tangible
personal property, with certain limited exceptions. Under Measure Y, the tax
would be collected at the same time and in a similar manner as the existing sales
tax, and would be administered by the State Board of Equalization. This retail
tax is paid by nonresidents, as well as residents, and would only apply to goods
and services that are subject to the existing sales tax. Like other Culver City
revenues, the added tax would be subject to annual independent audits.

To be adopted, State law requires that this Measure be approved by a majority of
the voters. A “Yes” vote on Measure Y would adopt the ordinance increasing the
transactions and use (sales) tax rate in Culver City by a half-cent (0.5%), which
would terminate in ten years. A “No” vote would not adopt the increase.

<impartialend>