<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X

if approved by 2/3 of Petaluma voters, Measure X would add Chapter 4.50 to the
Petaluma Municipal Code effective approximately December 27,2012 and impose
an annual parcel tax on Petaluma parcel owners or possessors each July 1 for 15
years starting July, 2013. The measure would be automatically repealed on July 1,
2031, four years after the final tax levy. The tax proceeds could only be used to
fund specified park and recreation projects and programs and related administrative costs as specified in the measure.

The annual tax would range from $52 per single-family residential parcel to $500
for muitiple-residential-unit parcels with 11 or more units. Non-residential parcels
would also be taxed. The amount would depend on the type of use, and whether a
parcel is improved. The measure would exempt from the tax parcel owners and
possessors that are legally exempt from taxation, and parcels owned by schools;
senior citizens; religious institutions; government; and nonprofit service organizations, as defined in the measure. The measure would also exempt from the tax
common areas, as defined in the measure, and would partly exempt affordable
housing projects.

The measure would establish a citizen oversight committee appointed by the
Petaluma Recreation, Music, and Parks Commission. The oversight committee
would review expenditures funded by the parcel tax to ensure that the proceeds
are spent exclusively for voter-approved purposes, and would publicly report on
how parcel tax funds are spent. The meetings and records of the oversight commit-
tee would be open to the public. The measure would require the City to administer
and enforce the measure, to oversee collection and receipt of all tax proceeds, and
to deposit the proceeds into a special account. The measure would authorize the
City to adopt enforcement regulations consistent with the measure’s purposes,
and allow the City to authorize Sonoma County to collect the tax proceeds in the
same manner as City property taxes, with the same penalties and interest for
non-payment.

The measure would prohibit the City Council from increasing the parcel tax rates
without voter approval, and authorize the City Council to make changes to the
measure that are consistent with the measure’s purposes and are recommended
by the oversight committee.

The measure also authorizes the City to require production of and to examine
specified records related to parcel ownership, tax computation and claims or petitions of persons subject to the tax. The measure also provides for collection of tax
delinquencies, imposition and collection of penalties and interest, requirements for
refunds, and definition of terms. The measure provides that if any part of it is invalidated, the invalidity shall only affect that part, and that its provisions are to be
liberally construed to effectuate its purposes.

The ballot question prescribed in the measure has been edited for publication in
the ballot materials to satisfy statutory word limits.

<impartialend>