<impartial>	

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE

The City Council has placed before the voters the question whether to approve an ordinance
enacting a temporary transactions and use tax within the City of Albany to fund City services
such as fire and police, parks and recreation, senior and youth programs and facilities,
community development, environmental preservation, and other general City services and
facilities. The tax rate would be one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the retail sales price, or one-
half cent for an item that costs one dollar. The tax would remain in effect for eight years. A full
copy of the ordinance text is printed in these ballot materials.

Technically, the existing "sales tax" is a combination of "sales and use tax" and "transactions
and use tax." Both are levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at retail,
with certain limited exceptions. Retailers collect the tax at the time of sale and remit the funds
to the State Board of Equalization, which administers the tax.

Currently, the tax on retail sales in Albany is 8.75% of the purchase price. This measure would
authorize a 0.50% transactions and use tax, which would increase the total sales tax rate to
9.25%. The tax would automatically terminate eight years after it becomes operative, unless
extended by the voters.

The tax proceeds would be deposited into the City's general fund and be available to support
the full range of municipal services. Because this measure does not legally restrict the use of
tax revenue to any specific purposes, it is classified as a "general tax," not a "special tax." The
tax proceeds may be used for any valid municipal governmental purpose and cannot legally be
taken away by the State.

This measure requires the City's independent auditors to prepare an annual audit report
reviewing the collection, management and expenditure of revenue from the tax. The audit
report will be a matter of public record.

A "Yes" vote is a vote in favor of the tax. A "No" vote is a vote against the tax. This measure
will be approved if it receives a simple majority of "Yes" votes.

<impartialend>