<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I


Background

In 1988, the voters of the City of Vacaville approved an excise
tax for the purpose of funding general municipal services and
facilities provided to persons living and working in Vacaville. The
tax, commonly referred to as “Measure I”, generates approximately
$2.4 million per year, which is deposited into the City’s General
Fund and used to provide a variety of City services and facilities
such as street repair, park maintenance, recreation programs,
public parks, sports fields, roadway improvements, the McBride
Senior Center, the Walter V. Graham Aquatics Center, the Ulatis
Community Center, the Vacaville Performing Arts Theater, funding
for local libraries, and other services and facilities that promote the
public health, safety, and welfare of persons living and working in
Vacaville. The excise tax is due to expire in December 2013.

As a result of the current statewide economic downturn and
resulting decrease in sales and property tax revenues and the
elimination of redevelopment agencies by the State of California,
the City has experienced a reduction in revenue, which has
required the City to reduce its work force by approximately twenty-
five percent (25%), decrease employees salaries and benefits,
and curtail expenditures on equipment, supplies, and services,
resulting in a reduction of City services and facilities provided to
persons living and working in Vacaville. Despite these reductions
in expenditures, the City's general fund is projected to have a
deficit of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2013-2014 and $2.7 million in
fiscal year 2014-2015. The deficit is projected to continue beyond
fiscal year 2014-2015. The tax will help to avoid further reductions
in municipal services and facilities.

The Measure


This Measure proposes to continue the tax at the same rate
structure for an additional twenty-five year term (the same term
as the existing Measure I. The rate structure cannot be increased
without a vote of the people. The manner of collection will not
change.

<impartialend>