<impartial>


CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

RIO VISTA GENERAL CITY SERVICES TAX MEASURE

The City Council of the City of Rio Vista has placed Measure
0 on the November 6, 2012 ballot. California Revenue and
Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy
a transactions and use tax via ordinance, provided the ordinance
establishing the tax is ultimately approved by the voters. Measure
0 would, if approved by voters, raise revenue for general services
in the City of Rio Vista by establishing a 0.75 percent (i.e., 3/4 cent)
transactions and use tax for a period of five years.

A transactions and use tax is administered by the State Board
of Equalization. Once established, a transactions and use tax is
allocated to the city where any goods are delivered or placed into
use. The transactions and use tax that would be established by
Measure 0 is also considered to be a “general tax."

As a “general tax,” the revenue generated by Measure 0 will be
deposited in the City’s general fund. Further, the ballot question for
Measure 0 states that the 0.75 percent transactions and use tax
is to be used for funding City services “including police, fire, land-
use planning and other city services.” Because this transactions
and use tax would be a “general tax,” the City of Rio Vista would
be able to use tax proceeds for any legal governmental purpose
without restriction. The City of Rio Vista would not be legally bound
in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any
particular program or service.

Also, because Measure 0 is a “general tax,” it will be approved if a
simple majority (over 50%) of voters vote in favor of it. If approved,
Measure O would become effective on April 1, 2013, and would
remain in effect until March 31,2018, a period of five years. The
tax would expire at the end of the five-year period unless it is
reauthorized by a majority of the voters at a future election that
occurs prior to the expiration of the tax.

A “YES" vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levying the 0.75
percent transactions and use tax. A “NO” vote is a vote against
the tax.

<impartialend>