<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

CITY OF BELLFLOWER SERVICES PROTECTION EMERGENCY
FUNDING MEASURE

Measure P proposes to increase Bellflower’s existing Utility Users’ Tax (UUT)
from 5% to 7% for 5 years. That increase is proposed as a more dependable
revenue. It is a source of revenue totally within local control - a source on which
the community can rely to fund important City services.

Background.

Since 1993, Bellflower residents and businesses have paid the UUT on
telecommunications, electricity and gas services. The City deposits UUT
revenues into its General Fund and expends them through the annual budget for
general City services, such as public safety, graffiti removal, gang and drug
prevention and enforcement programs, after-school and youth summer activities
and other services. Annual UUT revenues comprise approximately 16%, or
$3.8 Million, of Bellflower’s annual General Fund. Since its inception, the City
has required an annual independent verification to confirm the UUT is being
properly collected, remitted and spent.

In recent years, most cities and states, the nation and many individuals have
encountered dire financial circumstances. To address the impacts those have
caused to Bellflower’s budget, the Council has made significant cuts to
personnel, programs, operating costs and capital expenditures and increased cost
recovery through a revised Comprehensive Fee Schedule. Even after
implementing those steps, the City’s expenses continue to outpace its revenues.
The projected operating budget deficit for the General Fund over the next two
years is $1.6 Million. That deficit is the result of broad declines in City revenues,
especially sales and property taxes. Those declines are in addition to local funds
being taken to balance the State’s General Fund deficit.

To ensure consistent, local revenue is available to allow the Bellflower
community to pay for vital local services, such as neighborhood Sheriffs patrols,
drug, gang and bullying prevention and enforcement, graffiti removal, crossing
guards, after-school and youth summer activities, pothole repairs and other
services, Measure P, if approved by the voters, would increase the current UUT.
The Council intends to continue the independent annual review of the UUT.

Measure P would:

-	Increase the UUT from 5% to 7% only for the period from April 1, 2013,
through March 31, 2018.

-	Require the UUT to return to 5%, automatically, on April 1, 2018, unless the
voters extend the increase for a longer period.

-	Permit the Council to lower or suspend the UUT rate, but not raise it without
another vote of the people.

-	Increase the General Fund annual revenue by approximately $1.5 Million over
the 5-year period that increase would be in effect.

-	Maintain the existing exemption for low-income households; the Council may
temporarily expand exemptions, but not reduce or eliminate exemptions for
low-income households without voter approval.

-	Not tax the use of the Internet. Federal law prohibits taxing that use and the
UUT complies with that law.

Measure P requires approval by a majority of voters. A “Yes” vote approves
increasing the UUT from 5% to 7% for 5 years. A “No” vote disapproves that
increase.

<impartialend>