<impartial>

Impartial Analysis of Measure K

State law allows the City of Menlo Park to impose a transient
occupancy tax on short term occupants of hotels, motels, inns or
other lodging. The transient occupancy tax (sometimes referred to
as a “hotel tax”) is a tax on the nightly room rent paid by visitors
staying in hotels, motels, inns or other lodging in the City of Menlo
Park for stays of thirty consecutive days or less.

The City, through Chapter 3.16 of the Municipal Code, has levied
a transient occupancy tax on hotel and motel visitors since 1967.
This measure would increase the transient occupancy tax rate from
10% to 12%. By way of example, if this measure is approved, for
a room that costs $100 per night, the tax due would increase from
$10.00 to $12.00 per night. The tax rate was last increased in 1992.
Copies of Ordinance 938 and Chapter 3.16 are available at the City
Clerk’s office and on the City Clerk’s page on the City’s website at
www.menlopark.org.

The proceeds of the transient occupancy tax increase will be placed
in the City’s general fund to support general City services, such
as police and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, parks and storm
drains. Any general tax increase, such as the proposed increase in
the transient occupancy tax, requires approval of a two thirds vote
of the City Council and majority approval of the voters at a general
election at which council members are up for election. Ordinance
938 to increase the transient occupancy tax was unanimously
approved by the City Council subject to voter approval. If approved
by voters on November 6th, the increase would become effective
on January 1, 2013.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve and authorize an increase in the
transient occupancy tax rate from 10% to 12% to support general
City services and functions. A “No” vote on this measure would not
allow an increase in the tax rate for hotel and motel guests, leaving
the tax rate at 10%.

The measure passes if a majority of those voting on the measure
vote “Yes.”

<impartialend>