<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X

Save Our Pomona Public Library

The Pomona Public Library (the “Library”) opened in 1887, and has operated
from its current location in Pomona Civic Center since 1965. As part of the City’s
2012-13 Fiscal Year adopted budget, the cost to operate the Library in 2012-13 is
estimated at $1.1 million. This amount provides for 26 hours of weekly service
from July 1 through August 15 and 20 hours of weekly service through the end of
the fiscal year.

Due to the ongoing recession and resulting decreases to the City’s general fund,
the City estimates an early projected future budget deficit of approximately $1.5
million in Fiscal Year 2013-14. As a result, the City’s general fund will not be
able to fund library services in future fiscal years and the Library will likely close
in July 2013 unless other funding sources are found.

Measure “X” would impose a “Special Library Parcel Tax” on each taxable
parcel of property, improved or unimproved, within the boundaries of the City,
at a rate of $38.00 per parcel and/or residential unit beginning in the 2013-14
Fiscal Year. The tax is applied on a uniform basis to all parcels, regardless of
whether such parcels are commercial, residential or other uses, with the
exception of governmental or exempted uses. If adopted, the measure would
result in estimated revenues of $1,634,000.00 dedicated solely to library services.

If adopted, library services must be offered at least 38 hours per week over at
least five (5) days per week. “Library services” includes operating and
maintaining equipment, library personnel salaries, and any incidental expenses
incurred in the administration of the tax. If the City reduces library hours below
38 hours per week, the City may not levy the special parcel tax for the following
year.

If Measure “X” is adopted, the tax revenues collected must be kept in a separate
fund from the City’s general fund, any may not be used for any other purpose.
The measure also requires an independent auditor prepare a report and present
such report to the City Council each year by December 31.

In order to be adopted, the measure must be approved by two-thirds (2/3s) of the
voters. If approved, the special parcel tax will take effect July 1, 2013. Beginning
on July 1, 2014, the $38.00 parcel tax rate may be adjusted annually for inflation,
according to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) adjustment for each year, but shall
not exceed a five percent (5%) adjustment and no less than zero percent (0%)
adjustment for any single year. The measure also proposes an increase to the
City’s appropriations limit pursuant to state law.

A “Yes” vote on Measure “X” supports the Special Library Parcel Tax in the
amount of $38.00 per parcel and/or residential unit. A “No” vote on Measure “X”
will not approve the Special Library Parcel Tax, and will likely result in the
closure of the Library effective July 2013 unless other funding sources are found.

<impartialend>