<impartial>

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Prepared by Citrus Heights Attorney

The Citrus Heights City Council has placed Measure K on the ballot, to ask voters to update the definitions in the City’s existing
Utility Users Tax (UUT) Ordinance and to approve a temporary
one and three-quarter percent (1.75%) increase in the UUT for a
period of ten (10) years for the sole purpose of funding street
resurfacing, additional police officers, police equipment and technology, and programs to prevent youth crime/violence.
The UUT is a tax on electricity, gas, cable, sewer and telecommunications services.

The City, when it incorporated in 1997, adopted Sacramento
County's UUT ordinance; that ordinance has not been updated
since that time. Measure K would update the definitions in the
City's current UUT ordinance by including wireless communications, private communication service, paging and voice over internet, and other anticipated technologies within the scope of the
services subject to the UUT. Thus, if Measure K passes, users
of these and other new technologies would pay the same UUT
paid by users of traditional landline telephones and other utility
users.

Measure K does not propose any tax on internet access, such as
DSL or cable modem. Measure K also does not tax internet services, such as purchases or downloads of music, books, or similar
items.

Measure K defines how the City must use the increased revenue.
Because Measure K is a special, not a general, tax and due to
Measure K's terms, the increased UUT revenues from the 1.75%
temporary tax can only be used as follows: 0.875% for street
resurfacing; 0.547% for additional police officers, 0.218% for
police equipment and technology, and 0.110 % for programs to
prevent youth crime/violence. A special fund, the “Street i
Resurfacing and Crime Reduction Measure Fund," will be created
and all proceeds from the special tax will be deposited into this
fund. The City will have an annual report providing information on
the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of
any projects authorized to be funded by the special tax.

Measure K will not become effective unless the Measure is
approved by two-thirds of the people voting on the Measure.

A “Yes" vote is a vote to approve updating the UUT and to approve
a temporary 1.75% increase in the UUT for a period often years
for the sole purpose of funding street resurfacing, additional police
officers, police equipment and technology, and programs to prevent youth crime/violence. A “No” vote is a vote against the tax.
Measure K would be approved if it receives a “Yes” vote from 2/3s
of those voting on the Measure.

<impartialend>