<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE J

Measure J, if approved by a majority vote, would
authorize an amendment to the City of Chico
Municipal Code regarding the City’s telephone users’
tax.

Since 1970, the City of Chico has imposed a
telephone users’ tax paid by telephone customers on
their telephone bills. All revenue generated goes into
the City’s general fund which is used to fund general
City services and programs.

The City’s existing ordinance, like many similar tax
ordinances throughout the state, defines which
telephone communications services are subject to the
tax by referencing definitions in the federal excise tax
on telephones. Since that time, new communications
technologies have been introduced, such as cellular
phones and voice over the internet telephone
services, and there have been changes to federal
law, including the adoption of the Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act of 2000 and
changes in the IRS’s application of the federal excise
tax on long distance service. Taxes imposed by
other California cities that contain language similar to
the City’s existing ordinance have been the subject of
legal disputes based on these changes and this has
created uncertainty about the application and reach
of the City’s tax. An adverse ruling in such a case
could result in a substantial decrease in the revenues
collected under the City’s current ordinance.
Passage of this measure would protect the City from
similar litigation or claims and prevent the loss of
those revenues.

Measure J would:

•	Reduce the current tax rate from 5% to 4.5%;

•	Apply the tax to all users of telephone
communications services regardless of the means
of transmission or technology used to provide
such services, including users of cellular services,
private communication services, voice over
internet services, paging, text messaging and
traditional land line services; and

•	Define telephone communications services that
are subject to the tax to include intrastate,
interstate, and international communications.

The tax would not apply to internet services.
Furthermore, the tax would not apply to charges for
internet services such as email and digital downloads
of items such as books, music, games and ringtones.

A “Yes” vote is in favor of adopting the ordinance
amending the telephone users’ tax. A “No” vote is
against adopting the ordinance. A majority of “Yes”
votes is required for the ordinance to be enacted.

<impartialend>