

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE D

Measure D seeks voter approval of a 0.25% (quarter cent) transactions
and use tax authorized by the City of Red Bluff Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance of 2014 (Ordinance No. 1030).

If Measure D is approved, the transactions and use tax will be in
effect from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2021. Any extension of
the tax beyond March 31, 2021 would require additional voter
approval.

The transactions and use tax would be collected by the California
Franchise Tax Board along with the sales and use tax. Consumers
most commonly pay sales and use taxes in the form of the sales tax
collected by a retailer. In certain circumstances, when a product is
bought outside of the state and first used inside of the state, that
use is subject to the use tax. The current sales and use tax rate in
Red Bluff (and throughout Tehama County) is 7.5% (seven and a half
cents), One cent of this rate is a local sales tax (known as the
Bradley-Burns tax) that is imposed throughout the state, The
remainder is a state tax that funds the state government.

For the most part, if a transaction or use that occurs in the City of
Red Bluff is subject to the California sales or use tax, it will also be
subject to the proposed transaction and use tax. The differences
between a transaction and use tax and a sales and use tax are
governed by state law. The most significant difference is that, for
sales of motor vehicles, the transactions and use tax is applied not
based on the location of the sale (such as a car dealer's location)
but based on the location.for which the motor vehicle is registered
with the Department of Motor Vehicles (generally the new owner’s
address). Sales of goods that are exempt from the California sales
and use tax (such as most food sales, drug sales, and charges for
services) are also exempt from the transactions and use tax.

The City estimates that the Measure' D tax will generate $600,000 in
revenues annually. These revenues will be deposited in the City’s
general fund and available for any lawful municipal purpose, Such
purposes include, but are not limited to, funding of the City’s police,
fire and recreation and parks departments, Because revenues are
available for general purposes, Measure D can be approved by the
voters by a majority vote of the ballots cast on the measure. Revenues
will be subject to annual independent audit.

Measure D was placed on the ballot by the City Council of the City
of Red Bluff

